For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 4:30 a.m.: Regional authorities urged civilians on Monday to urgently evacuate the eastern Ukrainian city of Lysychansk which is being attacked by Russian forces. “The situation in the city is very difficult,” Serhiy Gaidai, the governor of the Luhansk region which includes Lysychansk, wrote on the Telegram messaging app. 4 a.m.: A price cap on Russian energy imports pushed for by the United States would only be effective with sufficient support internationally, German Economy Minister Robert Habeck said in Luxembourg on Monday ahead of a meeting of EU energy ministers. “This is a good idea if enough countries take part,” Habeck said speaking to reporters. Arrival and doorstep by Robert #Habeck Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Action of #Germany, at the Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council (#Energy), taking place on 27 June 2022, in #Luxembourg.#TTEhttps://t.co/3BBLZUwxmH  3:30 a.m.: Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said on Monday that France is working on energy contingency plans because of cuts to gas flows from Russia which have hit the European market, but it has not yet had to put them into action, according to Reuters. Le Maire said talks were already underway on the issue with French Energy Minister Agnes Pannier-Runacher, although details had still to be finalized. Russia has reduced gas flows to a dozen European countries in response to unprecedented EU sanctions imposed on Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine. “We will determine which companies are of the most strategic importance, namely those for whom we can allow gas to be cut off and those for whom we cannot allow any cuts,” Le Maire told RMC Radio, Reuters reported. 3:10 a.m.: Britain’s environment minister George Eustice said on Monday that his country is providing technology to ensure that any wheat stolen from Ukraine by Russia does not make it to the global market, Reuters reported. Russia’s February 24 invasion of Ukraine and blockade of its Black Sea ports has prevented the country, traditionally one of the world’s top food producers, from exporting much of the more than 20 million tons of grain stored in its silos. Last week Turkey said it was investigating claims that Ukrainian grain had been stolen by Russia and shipped to countries including Turkey, but added the probes had not found any stolen shipments so far. Russia has previously denied allegations that it has stolen Ukrainian grain. “Russia, it appears, are stealing some wheat from those stores,” Eustice, Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, told Sky News. “What the U.K. government is doing is making available the technology that we’ve got to be able to test the provenance of wheat. We’re working with other countries including Australia on this so that we can ensure that stolen Ukrainian wheat does not find a route to market.” Eustice said Britain was also looking at what it could do to help Ukraine repair its railways to get the wheat out of Ukraine via land. General Richard Barrons, former commander of Joint Forces Command, said it is “impossible” to move Ukraine’s grain stores by sea without an agreement from Russia. "Impossible" to move Ukraine's grain stores by sea without an agreement from Russia, warns General Richard Barrons, adding that "several hundred million people" will starve without such a deal.#KayBurley https://t.co/X3flQUBL0r📺 Sky 501 pic.twitter.com/2SPkRDztrW  2:05 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 27 June 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/sKDdkkH7BC🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/i963Jlmikl  1:15 a.m.: Russian forces were fighting on Monday to capture Lysychansk, the last major city still held by Ukrainian troops in eastern Luhansk province, after Moscow-backed separatists said they were advancing on multiple fronts, Reuters reported. In a victory for Kremlin's campaign, Lysychansk's twin city of Sievierodonetsk, the scene of some of the bloodiest fighting, fell to pro-Russian forces on Saturday. Russian missiles also struck Kyiv for the first time in weeks on Sunday, attacks condemned by U.S. President Joe Biden as “barbarism.” Tass news agency on Sunday quoted a separatist official as saying Moscow's forces had entered Lysychansk from five directions and were isolating Ukrainian defenders. Reuters could not confirm the report. 1 a.m.: Russia moved closer Sunday to defaulting on international debt payments for the first time in a century. Interest payments totaling $100 million on two bonds were originally due May 27, but carried a 30-day grace period. Russia has struggled to make such payments due to restrictions on its financial activities related to sanctions imposed in response to its invasion of Ukraine that began in late February. 12:30 a.m.: The United States and other G-7 countries are expected to announce on Tuesday that they will ban imports of gold from Russia, according to a report in The Washington Post. The intent of the move is to further isolate Russia from the international financial system, reported the newspaper. 12:01 a.m.: Russia may be on track for its first major external sovereign debt default, two sources told Reuters. This is because some Taiwanese holders of Russian Eurobonds have not received interest due on May 27 after a grace period expired on Sunday evening. Russia was due to make $100 million in coupon payments on two Eurobonds on May 27. Sweeping sanctions imposed by Western capitals on Russia in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24 as well as countermeasures by Moscow have all but severed the country from the global financial ecosystem. Russia calls its actions in Ukraine a “special operation.” Despite the plethora of curbs, Russia had managed to make payments on seven bonds since its invasion of Ukraine before the latest interest payments. Russian debt makes up less than half a percent of Taiwanese bond holdings, Reuters reported. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters.