For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 8:45 a.m.: Ukrainian defense intelligence says overnight airstrikes on Ukraine from Belarus represent an attempt by Russia to draw Belarus into war, the Kyiv Independent reports. Russia launched 12 missiles from Belarus territory, targeting Kyiv, Chernihiv, and Sumy oblasts overnight on June 25. Ukraine’s military intelligence notes this is the first airstrike on Ukraine conducted directly from Belarus, adding that it is Russia’s “provocation” to draw Belarus into its war against Ukraine. 8:20 a.m.: Western intelligence and military experts are predicting that Russia’s military will soon exhaust its combat capabilities and be forced to halt its offensive in Ukraine’s eastern Donbas region, the Washington Post reports. The Post cites chatter on Russian Telegram channels and Ukraine’s deputy defense minister Anna Malyar, which suggest the Russian military is under pressure to bring all of Luhansk under Russian control by Sunday. But this will require using up artillery at a rate almost no military in the world could sustain for long, according to a senior Western official. “There will come a time when the tiny advances Russia is making become unsustainable in light of the costs and they will need a significant pause to regenerate capability,” he said. And at least one Russian analyst agrees. “Russia does not have enough physical strength in the zone of the special military operation in Ukraine …. taking into account the almost one thousand kilometer (or more) line of confrontation,” the Post quotes Russian military blogger Yuri Kotyenok, writing on his Telegram account. 7:45 a.m.: RFE/RL reports Ukraine's top general has told his U.S. counterpart that his country desperately needs "fire parity" with Moscow to “stabilize" the situation in Ukraine's eastern Luhansk region, where Russia's artillery advantage has led Ukraine to begin evacuating troops from the key battleground city of Syevyerodonetsk. "We discussed the operational situation and the delivery flow of international technical assistance," General Valeriy Zaluzhniy wrote in an online posting after holding a phone call on June 24 with General Mark Milley, the U.S. chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.Ukrainian General Calls For 'Fire Parity' As Troops Withdraw From Key Battleground City (rferl.org) Kyiv has received billions of dollars in aid from its Western partners since Moscow’s invasion began on February 24. But Ukrainian leaders say much more is needed as Russia continues its grinding advance focused on encircling Ukraine's last pocket of resistance in the Luhansk region. The Kyiv Independent reports that Ukrainian and German Finance Ministries Saturday signed an agreement for 1 billion euros funding "to finance priority social and humanitarian expenditures during martial law," according to a Ukrainian Finance Ministry statement. Ukraine has previously requested $5 billion per month in assistance from other countries. The Kyiv Independent - News from Ukraine, Eastern Europe 7:30 a.m.: The mayor of Ukraine's Sievierodonetsk said Ukrainian troops had "almost left" the strategic frontline city after holding out for weeks against advancing Russian forces. Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk did not confirm whether a full withdrawal was underway. On Friday, regional authorities said Ukraine was set to pull back its troops there. "Unfortunately, they have almost left the city," Stryuk said on national television. 5:43 a.m.: The New York Times reports Russia fired more than 40 rockets at Ukraine on Saturday, including some fired from Belarusian airspace. 5:22 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that Russian missiles have hit the Yavoriv military base near Lviv. Maksym Kozytskyy, Lviv's governor, said six missiles were fired from the Black Sea, and four hit the base. The other two were intercepted, he said. 4:51 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry says Ukraine is likely reconfiguring its defense of the Sieverodonetsk-Lysychansk sector. It also notes that Russia has removed several generals from key positions. The next commander for the Southern Group of Forces is likely to be Colonel-General Sergei Surovikin, whose career "has been dogged with allegations of corruption and brutality," the update says. 4:07 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, says Russian forces will likely prioritize encircling Ukrainian troops in Lysychansk before turning to Slovyansk. In its latest assessment of the war in Ukraine, the group notes that Ukrainian troops continue to fight in Kherson. Additionally, Ukrainian partisans are attacking Russian collaborators in Kherson. 2:02 a.m.: The New York Times reports that the Ukrainian city of Mariupol is in desperate circumstances under Russian rule. In a Telegram post, the Times said, the city's mayor, Vadym Boychenko, said there is no working sewage system or drinking water, and that garbage is burying the streets. Some 120,000 people remain in the city, and the mayor says Mariupol could be edging toward a health disaster driven by cholera and dysentery. 12:02 a.m.: The Kyiv Independent, citing Ukraine's military, reports that Ukrainian troops destroyed two Russian tanks, one horowitzer and seven armored vehicles. Ukraine also says it killed 46 Russian troops.