For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT. 9:00 a.m.: The Kremlin has again denounced Western plans to supply more weapons to Ukraine, The Associated Press reports. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Thursday that “the pumping" of weapons “will bring more suffering to Ukraine, which is merely a tool in the hands of those countries that supply it with weapons.”

8:30 a.m.: The head of the African Union, Senegal's president Macky Sall, will meet with President Vladimir Putin in Russia on Friday, Agence France-Presse reports. Sall’s office says the two leaders hope to discuss "freeing up stocks of cereals and fertilizers." 8:05 a.m.: Russia is currently occupying about 20% of Ukraine's territory, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Luxembourg's parliament in a video address on Thursday. "We have to defend ourselves against almost the entire Russian army. All combat-ready Russian military formations are involved in this aggression," he said, adding that the front lines of battle stretched across more than 1,000 kilometers. 8:00 a.m.: Britain says it is sending sophisticated medium-range rocket systems to Ukraine, The Associated Press reports. The pledge comes a day after the United States and Germany said they would send advanced weapons for shooting down aircraft and knocking out artillery as well to Ukraine. Kyiv is also set to get a diplomatic boost with the formal installation of a new U.S. ambassador on Thursday.

7:30 a.m.: Sweden will provide Ukraine with more economic aid and military equipment that will include anti-ship missiles, rifles and more anti-tank weapons, the Nordic country's defense and finance ministers said on Thursday, according to Reuters.

7:15 a.m.: Fires were still burning as residents surveyed the damage after Russian shelling hit a school and several apartment blocks in Slovyansk, eastern Ukraine. The city was held by Moscow-backed separatists for nearly three months in 2014 before being retaken by Ukrainian forces. RFE/RL reports that the Russian Army is now pushing toward the city from three directions. 6:30 a.m.: The editor in chief of the independent Moscow-based newspaper Novaya gazeta, Dmitry Muratov, will be selling his Nobel Prize medal later this month to help Ukrainian refugees, Dallas, Texas-based Heritage Auctions said.

The current bid for the medal that will be auctioned on June 20 is $260,000. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has the story.  5:45 a.m.: Ukraine’s Donetsk region governor says around 340,000 residents out of pre-war 1.67 million remain in the region, according to Reuters. Russian forces are trying to advance to Kramatorsk from Lyman and Izyum directions, the governor added. 4:56 a.m.: The Russian foreign ministry said on Thursday that the European Union’s decision to partially phase out Russian oil was likely to destabilize global energy markets, Reuters reported. “Brussels and its political sponsors in Washington bear full responsibility for the risk of an exacerbation in global food and energy issues caused the illegitimate actions of the European Union,” the ministry said in a statement. 3:45 a.m.: Reuters reported that Russia’s National Settlement Depository will service the country’s Eurobonds after Citibank stopped acting as a fiscal, transfer and payment agent, the finance ministry said on Thursday. The finance ministry also said that a delay in payments on its Russia-2022 Eurobond that were due on April 4 was caused by “unlawful actions” of foreign financial intermediaries. 3:00 a.m.: The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC+, said it is working on compensating for a drop in Russian oil output, two OPEC+ sources told Reuters on Thursday, as Russia’s production has fallen by around 1 million barrels per day in recent months as a result of Western sanctions on Moscow over Ukraine. One OPEC+ source familiar with the Russian position told Reuters that Moscow could agree to other producers compensating for its lower output, but it may not happen at a Thursday meeting and might not be in full. A Gulf OPEC+ source also said a decision on the matter was “highly possible” at a meeting on Thursday, Reuters added. 2:30 a.m.: The Slovak Defense Ministry said Thursday that the country will deliver eight self-propelled Zuzana 2 howitzers to Ukraine under a commercial contract which a state-controlled producer signed. The Zuzana 2 howitzer, a modernized version of an older model, uses 155-mm rounds and has an effective range of 40 km (25 miles) to more than 50 km (30 miles) depending on the ammunition type.  2:15 a.m.: The British defense ministry cautioned Thursday that Russian troops might turn their focus to the Donetsk region now that they have made significant gains to capture the key Luhansk city of Sievierodonetsk. “Russia has taken control of most of Sievierodonetsk. The main road into the Sievierodonetsk pocket likely remains under Ukrainian control but Russia continues to make steady local gains, enabled by a heavy concentration of artillery,” the ministry said in its daily report. But the ministry said Russian gains weren’t “without cost, and Russian forces have sustained losses in the process.”  1:30 a.m.: During an interview with Newsmax, the Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Andriy Yermak, praised his boss for his devotion to his country. President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy is “brave, he’s intelligent, and he’s smart,” Yermak said. “Many people recognize him as a leader not just of Ukraine, but of all of the free world.” Since the start of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Zelenskyy has inspired his citizens by staying in Kyiv to lead the fight against Russia’s aggression, captivating much of the world with impassioned speeches. VOA’s Senior Diplomatic Correspondent Cindy Saine looks at how he has evolved into a wartime president. No media source currently available 12:04 a.m.: Russian forces continue their siege of Sievierodonetsk, an industrial city in eastern Ukraine, The New York Times reported. “A local official said on Wednesday that Russian forces controlled about 70 percent of the city, where only about 12,000 residents remain out of a prewar population of 100,000 after weeks of intense shelling.” the Times report said. “Ukrainian soldiers there are at risk of being surrounded. With bridges over the Seversky Donets River destroyed or under fire, resupply has become tenuous. Ukrainian officials have been candid about the army’s travails while arguing more rapid deliveries of Western weaponry will resolve them. Every day in the current heavy fighting, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in an interview with Newsmax this week, 60 to 100 Ukrainian soldiers are killed and another about 500 soldiers are wounded in combat.” 12:01 a.m.: When she helped launch The Kyiv Independent in November, chief editor Olga Rudenko had no idea that six months later she would be on the cover of Time magazine. But her team’s reporting on Russia’s war in Ukraine propelled their English-language site into the spotlight, with Time describing The Kyiv Independent as the “world’s primary source for reliable English-language journalism on that war.”  Rudenko says she feels she has a great responsibility to her audience, “to be the world's window into Ukraine.” In this interview with VOA, she shares her commitment to fact-based reporting and how that has been essential in a war where disinformation is high, and journalists find themselves reporting on atrocities happening so close to home. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.