For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 3:36 a.m.: Al Jazeera, citing Russian state news agency RIA, reports that Russia denies taking stolen Ukrainian grain to Syria. Reuters had reported that Russian-flagged ships had been taking Ukrainian grain to Syria over the past few months. Russia's representative to Syria called this "more fake, unconfirmed and unrealistic information," Al Jazeera reports. 2:30 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, says Russia is continuing to attack Severodonetsk and to fortify fallback positions in Kherson Oblast. Russian and Ukrainian forces have also fought near Kharkiv City, and Russia has had several unsuccessful operations near Slovyansk. 1:15 a.m.: Russia has "strategically lost" its war with Ukraine, suffering heavy losses and strengthening NATO, the United Kingdoms chief of defense staff said in an interview published on Friday. "This is a dreadful mistake by Russia. Russia will never take control of Ukraine," said Tony Radakin, the country's highest-ranking military officer, adding it would emerge a "more diminished power.” "Russia has strategically lost already. NATO is stronger, Finland and Sweden are looking to join," he told Britain's domestic Press Association news agency. Radakin said Russian President Vladimir Putin may achieve "tactical successes" in the weeks to come but had sacrificed a quarter of his country's army power for "tiny" gains and was running out of troops and high-tech missiles. 12:02 a.m.: Germany's vice chancellor is appealing for the country's residents to step up their efforts to save energy after Russia's Gazprom announced significant cuts in natural gas deliveries through a key pipeline. Russian President Vladimir Putin "is doing what was to be feared from the beginning: He is reducing the volume of gas, not in one go but step by step," German Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck said in a video posted by his ministry on Twitter Wednesday night. Habeck, who is also the economy minister, had launched a campaign for people to save energy last week. After the Gazprom announcements, he hammered home the message in Wednesday night's video. "Gas is coming to Europe — we have no supply problem, but the volumes of gas must be acquired on the market and it will get more expensive," Habeck said. He said the government is prepared and noted that it has enacted legislation requiring gas storage to be filled.