For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT. 1:26 p.m.: Prosecutors investigating war crimes cases in Ukraine are examining allegations of the forcible deportation of children to Russia since the invasion as they seek to build a genocide indictment, the country’s top prosecutor said in an interview with Reuters. International humanitarian law classifies the forced mass deportation of people during a conflict as a war crime. "Forcibly transferring children" in particular qualifies as genocide, the most serious of war crimes, under the 1948 Genocide Convention that outlawed the intent to destroy - in whole or in part - a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. 1:12 p.m.: The Deputy Chairman of Russia's Security Council, Dmitry Medvedev, warned of dire consequences due to international sanctions on Russia. Claiming Russia favors dialogue over confrontation, he told Al Jazeera TV, "one can believe that the horsemen of the Apocalypse are already on their way and all hope is in Almighty God. However, one can still try to tone down this international situation." 12:23 p.m. The EU Parliament banned lobbyists working for Russian companies from its premises: Effective immediately, Russian company representatives are no longer allowed to enter @Europarl_EN premises.We must not allow them any space to spread their propaganda & false, toxic narratives about the invasion of #Ukraine.We will remain united & strong against autocrats. 11:30 a.m.: The European Union has expanded sanctions against Russia and added the National Settlement Depository, which Moscow planned to use to service the country's Eurobonds, to the list of sanctioned entities, Reuters reports. Russia replaced Citibank, which has stopped servicing the country's Eurobonds, with its own National Settlement Depository, as it risks its first major external debt default in more than a century. 11:20 a.m. How many buildings have been obliterated in Ukraine? How many limbs lost, children brutalized, refugees put to flight?In the war’s 100 days, @AP photographers have captured the terror, the tears of survivors, the separated families. https://t.co/lO1klvpSxD 10:00 a.m.: UN officials warned on Friday that a protracted war in Ukraine threatened a hunger crisis in the country and around the world, Reuters reports. UN crisis coordinator Amin Awad said at least 15.7 million people in Ukraine are in urgent need of assistance and protection, with the number rising by the day. When winter comes, millions of people will be exposed given the destruction of power plants and fuel depots, Awad told an online media briefing. 9:33 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video message Friday that his country won’t stop its resistance against the Russian invasion, the Associated Press reports. “Our team is much larger,” said Zelenskyy. “The Ukrainian Armed Forces are here. Most importantly, our people are here.” “We have defended Ukraine for 100 days already,” he added.” Victory will be ours!” A post shared by Володимир Зеленський (@zelenskiy_official) 9:09 a.m.: Kyiv's ambassador to Ankara on Friday accused Turkish buyers of buying grain that Russia stole from Ukraine, Reuters reports. Ambassador Vasyl Bodnar said Russia was shipping stolen grain out of Crimea, which it annexed in 2014, and added Kyiv was working with Turkey and Interpol to find the culprits. 8:45 a.m.: Ukraine has granted citizenship to one of Russia's most well-known TV journalists and Kremlin critics, Aleksandr Nevzorov, who was labeled as a foreign agent and whose arrest was ordered in absentia in Russia last month, RFE/RL reports. 7:24 p.m.: Ukrainian and Russian forces are engaged in a street-by-street battle in Sievierodonetsk, a small factory city in Ukraine's Luhansk province, Reuters reports. "I regret to say that the Russian army succeeded in making its way deep into the city... they control most of the city," Ukrainian regional governor Serhiy Gaidai said in televised comments overnight. He said about a fifth of the city was now a contested "grey zone". Ukrainian fighters were holding out in one area, were still able to clear Russians out of some streets, and had captured six Russian prisoners the previous day. "So I would tell skeptics not to write off Sievierodonetsk. It's too early to do that. The city is holding on." 6:38 a.m.: The Kremlin says that Ukrainian grain supplies to world markets will be part of the agenda for Russian President Vladimir Putin’s talks with the chairman of the African Union, Senegalese President Macky Sall, according to the Associated Press Ukraine is one of the world’s largest exporters of wheat, corn and sunflower oil. Ukrainian authorities and their Western supporters have accused Russia of endangering world food supplies with a naval blockade of Ukraine's ports. Russia has denied blocking the ports and said Ukraine needed to remove sea mines to allow safe shipping. 5:22 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that so far, in the Luhansk region alone, the Russian invasion has damaged more than 400 kilometers of road and destroyed almost 70 schools and 50 kindergartens. It's also destroyed 33 hospitals and 237 rural medical clinics, the region's governor said. 4:30 a.m.: Reuters reports that Ukraine's 2022 wheat crop is likely to drop some 42%, to 19.2 tons. Ukrainian officials and analysts warn that the conflict with Russia could make any harvest impossible. Additionally, Reuters reports, corn production could drop to 26.1 million tons, down from 37.6 million tons in 2021, and the barley crop could fall to 6.6 million tons, down from from 10.1 million tons. 3:08 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry says that after failure to seize Kyiv and Ukrainian centers of government at the beginning of the invasion, Russia is now seeing some success in the Donbas. "Russian forces have generated and maintained momentum and currently appear to hold the initiative over Ukrainian opposition," the update notes. However, the update says, this success had a "significant resource cost" and has not been replicated in other areas of Ukraine. "Any form of success," the update notes, "will require continued huge investment of manpower and equipment, and is likely to take considerable further time." 2:03 a.m.: CNN reports that Ukraine is investigating 10 Russian military personnel who allegedly looted civilian property in Bucha. CNN reports the items allegedly stolen include underwear, clothing and large household appliances. The prosecutor says the suspects mailed the looted property to their relatives. 1:05 a.m.: The Associated Press reports that the U.S. says it'll hold Russia accountable for crimes its forces have committed since the invasion of Ukraine began. U.S. Undersecretary of State Uzra Zeya addressed the U.N. Security Council and said the U.S. and its allies support a broad range of international investigations into alleged atrocities in Ukraine. 12:02 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that a man in Kharkiv, Ukraine, has been indicted for allegedly supporting the Russian invasion. A prosecutor says the man produced and distributed materials justifying the invasion. If convicted, he could get five years in prison. Some information in this report came from Reuters.