For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 9:56 a.m.: Ukrainian and British officials are warning that Russian forces are relying on weapons that can cause mass casualties, as they try to make headway in capturing eastern Ukraine, reports the Associated Press. Russian bombers have likely been launching heavy 1960s-era anti-ship missiles in Ukraine, the U.K. Defense Ministry said. The missiles were primarily designed to destroy aircraft carriers using a nuclear warhead. When used in ground attacks with conventional warheads, they “are highly inaccurate and therefore can cause severe collateral damage and casualties,” the ministry said. 9:35 a.m.: Russia is using its overmatch in force ratio and artillery to gradually seize territory in and around Ukraine's Sieverodonetsk, Britain's Defense Ministry said on Sunday, according to Reuters. Russia has likely started preparing to deploy the third battalion from some combat formations in recent weeks, the ministry said in its latest intelligence update posted on Twitter. 9:19 a.m.: Sri Lanka may be compelled to buy more oil from Russia as the island nation hunts desperately for fuel amid an unprecedented economic crisis, the newly appointed prime minister said during an interview with the Associated Press. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said he would first look to other sources but would be open to buying more crude from Moscow. Western nations largely have cut off energy imports from Russia in line with sanctions over its war on Ukraine. 8:27 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said no one knows how long the war in his country will last but that Ukrainian forces are defying expectations by preventing Russian troops from overrunning eastern Ukraine where the fighting has been fiercest for weeks. In his nightly video address, Zelenskyy said he was proud of the Ukrainian defenders managing to hold back the Russian advance in the Donbas region, which borders Russia and where Moscow-backed separatists have controlled much of the territory for eight years. “Remember how in Russia, in the beginning of May, they hoped to seize all of the Donbas?” the president said late Saturday. “It’s already the 108th day of the war, already June. Donbas is holding on.” 8:18 a.m.: The bodies of scores of Ukrainian fighters killed during the siege of the Azovstal steelworks in the southern city of Mariupol are still awaiting retrieval, the former commander of Ukraine's Azov National Guard regiment said on Sunday. He said that under the terms of a recent exchange, around 220 bodies of those killed in Azovstal had already been sent to Kyiv but "just as many bodies still remain in Mariupol,” Reuters reported. "Talks are continuing about further exchanges, to return home all the bodies. Absolutely all bodies must be returned and this is something we will work on," the former commander added in a video posted on his Telegram channel. 6:30 a.m.: Ukraine has established two routes through Poland and Romania to export grain and avert a global food crisis although bottlenecks have slowed the supply chain, Kyiv’s deputy foreign minister said on Sunday, according to Reuters. Dmytro Senik said global food security was at risk because Russia's invasion of Ukraine had halted Kyiv’s Black Sea grain exports, causing widespread shortages and soaring prices. Ukraine is the world’s fourth-largest grain exporter, and it says there are some 30 million tons of grain stored in Ukrainian-held territory which it is trying to export via road, river and rail. Ukraine was in talks with Baltic states to add a third corridor for food exports, Senik said. He did not give details on how much grain has already moved or would be moved through these routes. “Those routes are not perfect because it creates certain bottlenecks, but we are doing our best to develop those routes in the meantime,” he told Reuters on the sidelines of an Asian security summit in Singapore. 5:58 a.m.: At least 22 people were wounded when Russia struck the western Ukrainian town of Chortkiv, according to Agence France-Presse. The strike was a rare attack in the west of the country. "Yesterday at 19:46 (1645 GMT) Chortkiv was hit by four missiles, all fired from the Black Sea," regional governor Volodymyr Trush said in a Facebook post. He said all 22 people wounded, who included seven women and a 12-year-old, had been hospitalized. 4:00 a.m.: The first 15 restaurants of former McDonald's Corp will reopen in Moscow on Sunday under new ownership and a new name, "Vkusno & tochka," which means "Tasty & that's it," the company said, Reuters reported. Another 50 restaurants will be open on Monday, the company added. Sunday marks a new dawn for Russia’s fast-food lovers as restaurants formerly run by the hugely popular Western fast-food chain reopen under new branding and with renamed burgers, more than three decades after McDonald’s first opened in Moscow. 3:30 a.m.: Russian gas producer Gazprom said its supply of gas to Europe through Ukraine via the Sudzha entry point was seen at 41.9 million cubic meters on Sunday, unchanged from Saturday, according to Reuters. An application to supply gas via another major entry point, Sokhranovka, was rejected by Ukraine, Gazprom said. 3:00 a.m.: Ukraine said Sunday that it remains in control of the Azot chemical plant in Sievierodonetsk where hundreds of civilians are sheltering, Reuters reported citing the region’s governor. “Azot is not blocked, fighting is going on in the streets next to the plant,” Serhiy Gaidai said on Ukraine’s television. Gaidai said Russian forces will continue to try and capture the city on Sunday or on Monday. 2:35 a.m.: The European Commission will provide a clear signal next week on Ukraine's EU candidate status bid, Agence France-Presse reports. EU chief Ursula von der Leyen, who made a surprise visit to Kyiv on Saturday, said talks she held with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky "will enable us to finalize our assessment by the end of next week" -- the first time the bloc has publicly given a sense of timing. Zelensky has pressed for rapid admission into the EU to reduce Ukraine's geopolitical vulnerability. 1:40 a.m.: Bitter fighting raged in the eastern Ukraine city Sievierodonetsk, but the region's governor said Ukraine remained in control of an industrial area and chemical plant where hundreds of civilians are sheltering from incessant Russian shelling, Reuters reported. A Russia-backed separatist group on Saturday claimed 300 to 400 Ukrainian fighters were also trapped at the Azot plant. Governor Serhiy Gaidai earlier conceded Russian forces now controlled most of the small city in Luhansk province, and said Russian shelling of the plant had ignited a big fire after an oil leak. It was not known if the fire was still burning on Sunday. 12:44 a.m.: A man was killed by an explosion while visiting a beach on the Black Sea, where mines are a growing concern, according to the Associated Press. The Odesa city council said via Telegram that the man was there with his wife and son despite warnings to stay away from beaches. He was testing the water's temperature and depth when the explosion erupted. Russia and Ukraine each have accused the other of laying mines in the Black Sea. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.