A Ukrainian official said Russian troops have pushed into the center of the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk and continue to shell a chemical plant sheltering hundreds of soldiers and civilians. Regional governor Serhiy Haidai said Monday on Telegram that Russian troops control about 70% of the city and have pushed Ukrainian forces from the city’s center. He said the city’s Azot chemical plant, where hundreds of civilians are sheltering, is being “heavily shelled.” Haidai said about 500 civilians remain on the grounds of the plant and that Ukraine’s military is trying to get them to safety. Russia says all bridges to the city have been destroyed. Ukrainian officials say there is still another way out of the city but that the route is heavily damaged. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the battle for the Donbas region “will surely go down in military history as one of the most violent battles in Europe.” “For us, the price of this battle is very high. It is just scary,” Zelenskyy said late Monday. He added a repeated call for partner countries to send Ukraine modern artillery to use against Russian forces. Zelenskyy’s adviser, Mykhailo Podolyak, tweeted earlier Monday that “to end the war we need heavy weapons parity.” He listed several categories of weapons, including 1,000 howitzers, 300 multiple launch rocket systems, 500 tanks, 2,000 armored vehicles and 1,000 drones. Being straightforward – to end the war we need heavy weapons parity: 1000 howitzers caliber 155 mm; 300 MLRS; 500 tanks; 2000 armored vehicles; 1000 drones.Contact Group of Defense Ministers meeting is held in #Brussels on June 15. We are waiting for a decision.  “Contact Group of Defense Ministers meeting is held in Brussels on June 15,” Podolyak said. “We are waiting for a decision.” U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin is convening the meeting at NATO headquarters. A virtual meeting of the group last month drew representatives from 47 countries, NATO and the European Union.  Austin said after the May talks that the group was “intensifying our efforts” and working to deepen coordination with Ukraine “so that Ukraine can sustain and strengthen its battlefield operations.” Britain’s defense ministry said Monday that in recent days the battle around Sievierodonetsk “has continued to rage.” The ministry said Russia’s ability to carry out river crossing operations will likely be one of the most important factors in the war in the coming months. “To achieve success in the current operational phase of its Donbas offensive, Russia is either going to have to complete ambitious flanking actions, or conduct assault river crossings,” it said. Russia claims it already controls 97% of the Luhansk province where Sievierodonetsk is located. But capturing the industrial city of Sievierodonetsk, with a prewar population of 100,000, remains crucial to Moscow’s broader goal of controlling the eastern Donbas region, which encompasses the Luhansk and Donetsk provinces. Russia seized Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula in 2014 and Kyiv’s forces have been fighting pro-Russian separatists in the Donbas region since then. Some material in this report came from Reuters, The Associated Press, and Agence France-Presse.