Here's a summary of Uyghur-related news around the world from this week. Relatives of detained Uyghurs monitored, forced to attend 'political study sessions' RFA reported that Uyghur relatives of detainees were forced to attend "political study" sessions while the U.N. rights chief visited the region and were warned by police not to talk about their relatives in detention. UN rights chief asked to resign after China visit Rights activists and some U.S. politicians asked for the resignation of U.N. human rights chief Michelle Bachelet after her visit to Xinjiang, where she was accused of adopting China's narrative on the Uyghurs when she asked China to review its "counterterrorism" policies against the Muslim minorities in the region. Bachelet said her trip was not an investigation but rather a step toward further talks with Beijing. Scholars on 3 continents seek release of UN report on human rights in China The Guardian reported that scholars, in a letter published online, said they were "deeply disturbed" by the outcome of the U.N. human rights chief's visit to China, where she did not condemn Beijing of abuses in Xinjiang. UN labor organization seeks review of China's labor polices in Xinjiang Reuters reported that the U.N.'s International Labor Organization recommended a "technical advisory mission" evaluate China's labor policies in Xinjiang, where Beijing is accused of Uyghur forced labor. Previously, China has denied wrongdoing. Uyghur university student arrested by Chinese authorities in Xinjiang According to RFA, a 25-year-old Uyghur university student was arrested for "attempting to divide the country." His aunt in the Netherlands denied the accusation, said the Chinese government arrested her nephew because of China's "own insecurities," and said his only crime was being Uyghur. European Parliament calls Beijing's treatment of Uyghurs 'crimes against humanity' European Parliament lawmakers condemned the treatment of Uyghurs and other minority groups in Xinjiang. A resolution stated that in light of evidence from reports and the Xinjiang Police Files, the treatment in Xinjiang amounted to "crimes against humanity." It also said there were "serious indications of a possible genocide." News in brief A new report said Beijing's five-year plan in Xinjiang, which started in 2021, aims to maintain and consolidate China's "successes" from its forced labor campaign in the region from 2016 to 2020, increasing both the scale and scope of Uyghur forced labor. Quote of note "Will our talented young children be destroyed under this injustice? Why can't we live like other free people in democratic countries? Why has the world been silent, even after declaring genocide?" — Raziye Jalalidin, aunt of Zulyar Yasin, who was arrested by Chinese authorities last year for "attempting to divide the country."