For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 7:53 a.m.: "Fierce battles" with Russia are raging in villages near the eastern city of Severodonetsk, according to Ukrainian authorities, Agence France-Presse reported. Russian troops have been trying to take control of Severodonetsk for weeks. "Now the most fierce battles are near Severodonetsk. They (Russia) do not control the city entirely," Sergiy Gaiday, the governor of the eastern Lugansk region, said on Telegram. "In nearby villages there are very difficult fights -- in Toshkivska, Zolote. They are trying to break through but failing. Our defenders are fighting Russians in all directions. Recently, they shot down a plane and took captives." Gaiday also reported that Russian troops are heavily shelling Lysychansk, a city across a river from Severodonetsk, that is still controlled by the Ukrainians. 7:41 a.m.: Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy made a rare trip outside of Kyiv on Saturday to visit the war-damaged city of Mykolaiv, Agence France-Presse reported. It was the Ukrainian leader's first visit to the southern city since Russia invaded Ukraine almost four months ago. The president's office published video of Zelenskyy surveying a badly damaged high-rise resident building and holding meetings with local officials. 5:52 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry says that Russian forces appear to be aiming to gain more ground in the Donetsk Oblast and to take the Sieverodonetsk Pocket. As part of this, the Russians say they're trying to evacuate civilians through humanitarian corridors. The update notes, however, that Russia in the past has used such corridors to "manipulate the battlespace and impose the forced transfer of populations." And as a result of that, Sieverodonetsk civilians are likely to be wary. If the civilians don't evacuate, the update warns, Russia "will likely claim justification in making less of a distinction between them and any Ukrainian military targets in the area." 5:11 a.m.: TikTok Chief Executive Shou Zi Chew was pressed by Republican senators over reports the social media site had allowed Russian state-approved media content but barred other videos, Reuters reported. "Recent reports indicate TikTok… has allowed Russian state media to flood the platform with dangerous pro-war propaganda. No company should find itself in the position of amplifying the Kremlin’s lies, which fuel public support for Russia’s war of choice in Ukraine," said a letter signed by Steve Daines and signed by John Cornyn, Roger Wicker, John Barrasso, James Lankford and Cynthia Lummis. The senators wrote they were "deeply concerned" that TikTok "is enabling the spread of pro-war propaganda to the Russian public, which risks adding to an already devastating human toll for both Ukrainians and Russians,” Reuters reported. The Russian embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to requests for comment. TikTok said in a statement to Reuters that the company was looking forward to continuing to engage with members on these issues and answer their questions. 4:10 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, says that Ukrainian forces are likely launching a counteroffensive north of Izyum. They aim to disrupt supply lines and pull Russian forces away from offensive operations toward Slovyansk. Additionally, the institute's latest update notes, unconfirmed Ukrainian sources say that the Kremlin has fired Colonel-General Andrey Serdyukov, head of the Russian airborne forces, due to poor performance. 3:15 a.m.: Russia has reduced natural gas to Europe for a third day as countries have worked to ease their dependence on Russian supplies amid the war in Ukraine, The Associated Press reported. Friday saw significant reductions to the fuel that powers industry and generates electricity in Europe, which also have hit Germany and Austria. Russia told Slovakia's state-controlled gas company that it would reduce gas flow to the country by 50%, the AP reported. Russian energy giant Gazprom also told Italian gas company Eni that it would supply only 50% of the gas requested for Friday. France is no longer receiving any natural gas from Russia. 2:16 a.m.: VOA's Jeff Seldin reports that U.S. Rep. Mike Turner, the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, told the Defense One Tech Summit he fears Russia will turns to weapons of mass destruction. "They don't seem like they're going to walk away" Turner said. "They seem like they're going to escalate." Turner said Russian President Vladimir Putin is "acting like a murderous thug," and that Moscow's demeanor is more akin to what one would expect from North Korea. NEW: Could #Russia turn to weapons of mass destruction/nuclear weapons in #Ukraine? @RepMikeTurner, ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, tells #D1TECHSUMMIT, he fears the answer may be yes 1:08 a.m.: Lithuania has told the Russian region of Kaliningrad that it will block the import and export of a large number of goods by rail because of Western sanctions, regional Governor Anton Alikhanov said, according to Reuters. The region -- home to the Russian Baltic Fleet and a deployment location for nuclear-capable Iskander missiles -- is sandwiched on the Baltic coast between Lithuania and Poland, both NATO members, and has no land border with Russia, Reuters reported. Alikhanov said the clampdown would affect between 40% to 50% of the products that are imported to and exported from Russia through Lithuania. Among the goods that would be affected are building materials, cement and metal products, he said, according to Reuters. 12:02 a.m.: The eastern Ukrainian city of Lysychansk was heavily shelled by Russian forces on Friday and there were many dead, Governor Serhiy Gaidai told Ukraine's public broadcaster. Gaidai later said in an online post that a key highway out of the city was now impassable. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.