For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 3 a.m.: NATO leaders are meeting Thursday in Madrid for the final day of a summit that has included approving a new Strategic Concept for the alliance, naming “Russia’s aggression,” “systemic challenges posed by the People’s Republic of China” and the “deepening strategic partnership” between the two countries as its main priorities. In this document, the Western military alliance that was formed after World War II defined Russia as the “most significant and direct threat” and for the first-time addressed challenges that Beijing poses toward NATO’s security, interests, and values. 2:34 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said current ground combat is likely focused around the Lyschansk oil refinery as Ukrainian forces hold their positions in the city and Russian forces move in from the Popasna direction. 1:45 a.m.: Many Ukrainians thought civilian areas were off limits when Russia began its invasion of Ukraine. However, as the war raged for months, civilians weren’t spared. This Chernihiv resident shares her personal story with Current Time TV. Early in the war, many Ukrainians still believed civilian areas should be relatively safe. Chernihiv resident Valentyna learned the opposite on March 16 while waiting for bread. Artillery fire badly injured her and killed her husband and 13 others. She talks to @CurrentTimeTv pic.twitter.com/lUHDXhQQwE 1:07 a.m.: U.S. Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines cited Russian President Vladimir Putin as a destabilizing factor in the world today, VOA's Jeff Seldin reports. NEW: "The mismatch between what we perceive to be #Putin's even near-term military objectives & the fact that his military can't actually achieve them is a destabilizing factor" per @ODNIgov Dir Avril Haines "It has raised the potential for escalation"#Russia-#Ukraine 1:05 a.m.: Trade through Lithuania to the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad could return to normal within days, two sources familiar with the matter told Reuters, as European officials edge towards a compromise deal with the Baltic state to defuse a row with Moscow. Kaliningrad, which is bordered by European Union states and relies on railways and roads through Lithuania for most goods, has been cut off from some freight transport from mainland Russia since June 17 under sanctions imposed by Brussels. European officials are in talks about exempting the territory from sanctions, which have hit industrial goods such as steel so far, paving the way for a deal in early July if EU member Lithuania drops its reservations, said the people, who declined to be named because the discussions are private. The row over the Russian exclave's isolation is testing Europe's resolve to enforce sanctions imposed following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, fueling fears of an escalation after other restrictions pushed Russia to default on its debt. 12:02 a.m.: Hundreds of Ukrainian troops have completed military training in Britain, including on the Multiple Launch Rocket Systems (MLRS) the British government is supplying to help counter Russian artillery tactics, Reuters reported. Media were invited to film Ukrainian troops loading and firing 105mm light guns during exercises in southern England, one part of a British-led program that has trained more than 450 Ukrainian armed forces with support from New Zealand. The training is part of a wide-ranging international support package following Russia's invasion on Feb. 24, as the West seeks to help Ukraine repel Russian forces by providing increasingly advanced weapons systems and skills to use them. Some information in this report came from Reuters.