For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 6:15 a.m.: Germany will send weapons to Ukraine for as long as needed, said German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, adding that since his trip to Kyiv last week, it had become only clearer that Ukraine belongs to Europe. “One thing is clear: we will continue to support Ukraine, also with weapons, for as long as Ukraine needs our support,” Scholz said in a speech to German industry association BDI's Industry Day. He underscored at the Tuesday event that Germany stood resolutely at the side of Lithuania and other eastern allies. “Now is the time when everyone around the world who defends democracy and freedom, human rights and a liberal society has to join hands,” he said. 6 a.m.: The Baltic states on Tuesday asked for more financial support from the EU to handle Ukrainian refugees, the Lithuanian president’s office said. “We must share the financial burden, which at the moment is unproportionally assigned to national budgets. EU solidarity is very important to assure proper support to war refugees from Ukraine,” Lithuania's president Gitanas Nauseda said in a statement. 5:30 a.m.: Ukraine reported heavy strikes Tuesday in the Sievierodonetsk region as Russian forces push to gain full control of the eastern city. A spokesman for the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine said at a daily briefing that fighting in Sievierodonetsk was fierce, with Russia conducting both airstrikes and shelling on Ukrainian positions. Luhansk Governor Serhiy Haidai reported heavy fighting at the Azot chemical plant in Sievierodonetsk, where Ukrainian fighters and about 500 civilians are taking shelter. Haidai also said Russian forces had brought “catastrophic destruction” to the city of Lysychansk, located just across a river from Sievierodonetsk. 5:15 a.m.: European countries are united in their support for granting Ukraine the status of European Union member candidate, Luxembourg’s foreign affairs minister said on Tuesday, according to Reuters. “We are working towards the point where we tell Putin that Ukraine belongs to Europe, that we will also defend the values that Ukraine defends,” Jean Asselborn told reporters before a meeting with other EU ministers. 5:05 a.m.: The website of British newspaper The Telegraph has been blocked in Russia following a request from the prosecutor general, data from state communications regulator Roskomnadzor showed on Tuesday, according to Reuters. Since sending troops into Ukraine in February, Russia has cracked down on media coverage of the conflict, introducing 15-year prison sentences for journalists who spread intentionally “fake” news about what it calls its “special military operation” in Ukraine.  4:30 a.m.: Reuters reported that the European Union ambassador to Russia has arrived at the Russian foreign ministry, the RIA news agency said on Tuesday. The governor of Kaliningrad region said on Monday that the ministry would summon EU ambassador to Moscow Markus Ederer over Lithuania’s ban on the transit of goods under EU sanctions through Kaliningrad.  4:10 a.m.: Two Americans who were captured in Ukraine are currently located in the Russian-backed Ukrainian region of Donetsk, Reuters reported on Tuesday, citing the Interfax news agency. On Monday, the Kremlin said that two Americans detained in Ukraine were mercenaries not covered by the Geneva Conventions who should face responsibility for their actions. “They were involved in firing and shelling our military personnel,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. “They were endangering their lives.” When asked what crimes the Americans had committed, Peskov didn’t give specifics but said, “those crimes have to be investigated.”  3:45 a.m.: American actor and U.N. goodwill ambassador Ben Stiller met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, to discuss “ways of further cooperation of the Ukrainian authorities with UNHCR,” according to a statement issued by the president’s office following their meeting. 2:45 a.m.: Georgian Prime Minister Irakli Garibashvili said on Tuesday that his country is committed to joining NATO, but must solve its territorial problems with Russia before that, according to Reuters. He made the statement while attending an economic conference in Qatar. 2:10 a.m.: Ukrainian forces last week claimed their first successful use of Western-donated Harpoon anti-ship missiles to engage Russian forces, the British Military Intelligence said on Tuesday. “The target of the attack was almost certainly the Russian naval tug Spasatel Vasily Bekh, which was delivering weapons and personnel to Snake Island in the north-western Black Sea,” the defense ministry said in its daily Twitter update. The war has entered a brutal attritional phase in recent weeks, with Russian forces concentrating on Ukrainian-controlled parts of the Donbas, which Russia claims on behalf of separatists.  1:30 a.m.: Denmark’s energy agency declared a first level “early warning” alert over worries of its gas supply, due to uncertainty on energy imports from Russia because of the ongoing war in Ukraine, Agence France-Presse reported. 12:30 a.m.: Dmitry Muratov, editor of one of Russia’s last independent newspapers, auctioned off his 2021 Nobel Peace Prize medal on Monday, bringing in a record-shattering $103.5 million to benefit children displaced by Russia’s war in Ukraine. Organizer Heritage Auctions did not identify the winning bidder of the auction, which took place on World Refugee Day. The money is going to UNICEF’s humanitarian response for displaced Ukrainian children. Muratov was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize along with journalist Maria Ressa of the Philippines for their work to preserve free speech in their countries. The previous record price paid for a Nobel Prize medal was $4.76 million in 2014. Muratov said after Monday’s auction that he hoped “there was going to be an enormous amount of solidarity, but I was not expecting this to be such a huge amount.” 12:01 a.m.: European Council President Charles Michel said he would invite the EU to give Ukraine and Moldova candidate status to join the bloc at a summit this week, Agence France-Presse reported. The comments come after the European Commission recommended granting Ukraine candidate status last week ahead of an EU Council gathering in Brussels on Thursday and Friday. “Now is the time to acknowledge that the future of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia lies within the EU. I will invite you to grant candidate status to Ukraine and Moldova,” Michel wrote in an invitation letter to council members, AFP reported. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.