For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT. 10:08 a.m.: Surging food prices are fueling protests across developing world. The war in Ukraine and drought fueled by climate change has sent global prices for grains, cooking oils, fuel and fertilizer soaring. Reuters has compiled a list, in alphabetical order by country, of more than a dozen protests that have erupted over food prices over the past few months. 9:40 a.m.: In the run-up to Thursday's anniversary, Russian social media has been full of commentary wondering what happened to Peter the Great's vision. Inspired by time spent abroad, Russia’s Peter I made huge efforts to modernize his vast and under-developed nation during his rule from 1682 to 1725, most famously building Saint Petersburg as Russia's "window to Europe." With ties between Russia and the West shattered by Moscow's military intervention in Ukraine, authorities are downplaying Peter's affinity for Europe, instead focusing on his role in expanding Russian territories and consolidating state power, Agence France-Presse reported. More than three centuries after he sought to bring Russia closer to Europe, Russians on Thursday marked the 350th birthday of tsar Peter the Great with the country deeply isolated over the Ukraine conflicthttps://t.co/UY8WIh15mL  9:32 a.m.: The Kremlin said on Thursday that no agreement had been reached to sell grain from Ukraine to Turkey - which Ukraine says Russia has stolen from it - but that work on a deal was continuing, Reuters reported. Moscow denies stealing the grain but the United States says there are credible reports that Russia is "pilfering" it. 9:07 a.m.: ⚡️Kyiv authorities to initiate establishing military cemetery.Kyiv City Council will appeal to Ukraine’s parliament to establish a military cemetery near the Babyn Yar Holocaust memorial in Kyiv to hold “honorary burials of Ukraine’s defenders,” mayor Vitali Klitschko said.  9:00 a.m.: The Russian government added 551.4 billion rubles ($9.5 billion) to its emergency reserve fund on Thursday as the Kremlin steps up its stimulus package in a bid to protect the economy from the impact of Western sanctions and its actions in Ukraine, Reuters reported. The reserves boost came from extra profits generated by Russia's vital oil and gas exports, which are bringing in hundreds of millions of dollars a day to the budget despite Western sanctions. 8:50 a.m.: Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi on Thursday suggested an EU-wide scheme to protect citizens from higher energy costs resulting from Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Agence France-Presse reported. "We must consider replicating some of the joint tools that have helped us recover swiftly from the pandemic," Draghi told delegates gathered in Paris for a meeting of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). He highlighted that inflation in the eurozone single currency area reached 8.1 percent in May -- much of it driven by higher prices for energy including oil and gas following Moscow's assault on its neighbor. "Rising inflation is not wholly the sign of overheating (in the economy), but largely the result of a series of supply shocks," Draghi said. 8:43 a.m.: Ukrainian rapper-turned-volunteer soldier Otoy is putting the war into words and thumping baselines, tapping out lyrics under Russian shelling on his phone, with the light turned low to avoid becoming a target. It helps numb the nerve-shredding stress of combat, The Associated Press reported. "Russian soldiers drink vodka, we are making music." A Ukrainian rapper and soldier gives voice to the hatred of Russia felt by young Ukrainians, now venting their fury in song, art, tattoos and fundraising for the war effort.By @johnleicester in Kyiv: https://t.co/AXnDonYV9I pic.twitter.com/vmLrMc0bq0  8:24 a.m.: Russia’s defense ministry says it used air-launched missiles to destroy a Ukrainian military base where foreign fighters allegedly were being trained, The Associated Press reported. Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said Thursday that the training center was in the Zhytomyr region of central Ukraine, about 125 kilometers (75 miles) west of Kyiv. There was no immediate comment from Ukraine to the Russian claims. Russia refers to foreign fighters who joined Ukrainian troops in the war as ‘mercenaries.’ Konashenkov said Russian missiles also destroyed an ammunition depot and an anti-aircraft system elsewhere in Ukraine. 8:13 a.m.: In Ukraine's Kherson and Zaporizhzhia Regions, residents are struggling under Russian occupation. Increasingly isolated from their home country, residents fear being annexed by or even forced to fight for the Russians. VOA’s Maxim Moskalkov has this report. No media source currently available 8:00 a.m.: Ukrainian troops claimed to have pushed forward in intense street fighting in the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk but said their only hope to turn the tide was more artillery to offset Russia's massive firepower, Reuters reported. In the south, Ukraine's defense ministry said it had captured new ground in a counter-attack in Kherson province, aiming at the biggest swath of territory Russia has seized since its invasion in February. 7:53 a.m.: ⚡️UK ambassador Melinda Simmons visits Bucha. During her trip to Bucha on June 9, Simmons visited one of the city’s mass graves, as well as spoke with residents and local authorities. “(Bucha) residents have been through hell,” she wrote on Twitter.📷Melinda Simmons/Twitter pic.twitter.com/d1wPP3KxaK  7:49 a.m.: The director of a Russian college in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk has quit after saying he would not punish or exclude students fined by the authorities for publicly objecting to the war in Ukraine. In a Facebook post, Sergei Chernyshov said he had resigned as director of Novosibirsk City Open College on June 7 and is starting up a new "autonomous" college. Speaking to Current Time, a co-production of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and VOA, before he announced his resignation, Chernyshov said he would not be leaving Russia, because he felt "responsible" for his students.  7:34 a.m.: ⚡️Media: 2,449 Azovstal defenders in Russian captivity.The Ukrainian soldiers are kept at a pre-trial detention center in Olenivka, a Russian-occupied village in Donetsk Oblast, Ukrainska Pravda media outlet reported citing its anonymous sources in defense intelligence.  7:17 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Russia’s invasion of his country is a threat to the environment and could lead to dangerous pollution in the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea, The Associated Press reported. Zelenskyy made the comments at a ministerial meeting of the Paris-based Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. He used the platform to impress on ministers the need to wean states off Russian natural gas in favor of green energy. The Black Sea and the Sea of Azov border both Ukraine and Russia. The Black Sea also borders Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania and Turkey. 7:00 a.m.: Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba says 'Russian aggression', not sanctions, is fueling the global grain crisis. VIDEO: Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba says that Moscow's invasion of Ukraine is responsible for a global grain crisis, dismissing Russian claims that Western sanctions on Moscow had sent prices soaring pic.twitter.com/515j7QO9Wt  6:50 a.m.: Spiraling costs for farm inputs like fertilizer could deter growers from expanding production and worsen food security in poorer countries facing record import bills, the United Nations' food agency said on Thursday. An index of input costs for farmers was running at a record high and had climbed more steeply than food prices in the past year, suggesting low prices in real terms for many farmers, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) said in a report. Fertiliser costs could prolong global food tensions - FAO https://t.co/t6VrlC2I3G pic.twitter.com/OD2BjXMFo8  6:42 a.m.: The governor of eastern Ukraine’s Luhansk province says Russian forces are employing “scorched-earth tactics” against the city of Sievierodonetsk, hitting it with rockets, artillery and mortars. Serhiy Haidai also told The Associated Press on Thursday that neighboring Lysychansk is enduring “day and night shelling.” Russians are trying the storm the key road connecting Lysychansk and the city of Bakhmut but have failed to gain control of it, he said. Haidai says Ukraine still “remains able to deliver humanitarian supplies to the region by a relatively safe route.” Haidai said there were two attacks on a chemical plant and “fierce battles” continue in Sievierodonetsk. “Street battles are taking place with varied success in city blocks,” the governor said. “The army of Ukraine is fighting for every street and house.” 6:30 a.m.: Polish President Andrzej Duda slammed the leaders of France and Germany over their phone calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin, saying it was like having talks with Adolf Hitler during World War II, according to the German mass-selling daily Bild. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Macron have both held one-on-one phone calls with Putin since Russia launched a devastating invasion of Ukraine, with Macron in particular stirring Ukrainian ire by saying Russia must not be "humiliated" so as to preserve chances of a diplomatic solution. 6:17 a.m.: Long-range Western artillery systems could help the Ukrainian military push back Russian forces and retake control of the city of Sievierodonetsk within days, an official in eastern Ukraine said on Thursday. "As soon as we have long-range artillery to be able to conduct duels with Russian artillery, our special forces can clean up the city in two to three days," Luhansk regional governor Serhiy Haidai said in an interview distributed on his official social media channels. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this story. 6:00 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reports from a Ukrainian town that was badly damaged in the war, and where residents are contemplating what comes next. VIDEO: Residents of satellite towns north of the capital Kyiv are overcoming difficult memories of Russia's occupation and placing their hope in the government's promise of reconstruction pic.twitter.com/jcHoPXQm9e  5:58 a.m.: The New York Times reports that the city of Sievierodonetsk "remains at the center of the fight for the Donbas region." Smoke hovers above the city, and soldiers battle in the streets. 4:00 a.m.: "We must use all our influence and leadership to protect freedom and ensure the defeat of tyranny." — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, in a video address recorded for the Time100 Gala 2022.  2:45 a.m.: The United Kingdom's Ministry of Defense shares its latest Defense Intelligence update "on the situation in Ukraine." Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 9 June 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/og2mqOHzJQ🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/XGp8Uc97x9  1:30 a.m.: The body of French journalist Frederic Leclerc-Imhoff, who was killed in Ukraine, is repatriated, reports Agence France-Presse. 12:30 a.m.: Since Russia invaded Ukraine, Ukrainian retailers have lost almost $1.7 billion, according to a tweet by The Kyiv Independent. ⚡️ Ukrainian retailers lose almost $1.7 billion since start of war. According to the Retailers Association of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Council of Shopping Centers, 295 Ukrainian retailers, represented by 28,549 stores, suffered a loss of $1.7 billion from Feb. 24 to April 23.  Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.