Russia continued attacks on Ukraine’s capital Kyiv Wednesday, as NATO ministers gathered to discuss Russia’s invasion and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy prepared to deliver a video address to U.S. lawmakers in Washington. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said members in Brussels would be discussing both the “immediate consequences of Russia’s invasion” and long-term efforts to strengthen NATO’s collective defense. “NATO has a responsibility to ensure that this crisis does not escalate beyond Ukraine, and that's also the reason why we have increased the presence in the eastern part of the alliance,” Stoltenberg told reporters. He has said potential actions could include placing “substantially more forces” in the eastern area, along with increases in naval and air deployments, missile defense systems and holding larger and more frequent military exercises. U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin highlighted support for Ukraine’s ability to defend itself as well as U.S. commitment to aid any NATO ally that comes under attack. “I think our presence here sends a signal to the world that we remain united in our support of Ukraine, and we condemn Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified invasion into Ukraine,” Austin said. Russia has objected to NATO’s presence near its borders and sought a guarantee that Ukraine will never join the alliance. NATO insists countries are free to make their own decisions about security ties. While Ukraine is not part of NATO, seven NATO countries share borders with Russia, Ukraine or Russian ally Belarus, and that proximity has raised concerns of a wider conflict. Stoltenberg said there are 100,000 U.S. troops in Europe and another 40,000 troops under direct NATO command, as well as hundreds of thousands more on heightened alert across NATO nations. In Washington, members of the U.S. Congress will hear directly from Ukraine’s president. Zelenskyy’s speech, delivered by video to lawmakers, follows similar addresses to Britain’s House of Commons, Canada’s Parliament and the European Parliament in recent weeks as he pushes for more military and humanitarian support from the international community. U.S. President Joe Biden is scheduled to speak at the White House a few hours later, unveiling $800 million in new aid to Ukraine that will push the total amount of assistance announced by the United States during the past week to $2 billion. He is due to join other NATO leaders in Brussels for a summit taking place March 24, the one-month anniversary of Russia launching its invasion after denying for months it planned to do so. On the ground in Ukraine, the country’s emergencies agency reported a 12-story residential building was among the targets hit by Russian forces. Despite continued shelling of Kyiv and other cities, Russian ground forces are making “limited to no progress … in achieving their objectives” in Ukraine, a senior U.S. defense official said Tuesday in an assessment shared with VOA. The official said Kyiv “remains under heavy bombardment by long-range fire, with civilian targets to include residential areas being struck with increasing frequency. But leading elements of Russian forces have not appreciably advanced on the city.” Negotiations between Russia and Ukraine continued Tuesday, and while previous rounds yielded no major breakthroughs, Zelenskyy said in a video message early Wednesday that there were some signs of progress. “The meetings continue, and, I am informed, the positions during the negotiations already sound more realistic. But time is still needed for the decisions to be in the interests of Ukraine,” he said. Zelenskyy suggested a compromise on Tuesday, saying Ukraine was ready to accept security guarantees that fall short of its goal to join NATO. “If we cannot enter through open doors, then we must cooperate with the associations with which we can, which will help us, protect us ... and have separate guarantees,” Zelenskyy said. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said it was premature to predict whether the peace talks will lead to progress. “The work is difficult, and in the current situation, the very fact that (the talks) are continuing is probably positive,” Peskov said. The United Nations said Tuesday the number of people who have fled Ukraine since the invasion began had reached 3 million. VOA’s White House bureau chief Patsy Widakuswara and national security correspondent Jeff Seldin and Congressional correspondent Katherine Gypson contributed to this report. Some information also came from The Associated Press, Agence France-Presse and Reuters.