For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 

6:03 a.m.: The BBC reports that Mariupol's deputy mayor says officials have to stop the evacuation because the Russians have breached the cease-fire and are shelling. 5:50 a.m.: Reuters reports: The Kremlin said on Saturday that the West was behaving like bandits but that Russia was far too big to be isolated as the world was much larger than just the United States and Europe. 5:39 a.m.: Protests against Russia's invasion of Ukraine continue. 5 a.m.: Ukraine's president reassured his country's refugees, saying he's sure that soon they'll be able to come back, tweets Ukrainian parliament member Verkhovna Rada. 4:32 a.m.: The cease-fire is under way. 3:55 a.m.: As Russia’s bombardment of Ukraine’s cities intensifies, hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing the country. The United Nations has appealed to donor countries for help, as Henry Ridgwell reports from the Polish-Ukrainian border. No media source currently available 3:05 a.m.: The Associated Press reports that Russia says it'll observe a cease-fire in two area of Ukraine on Saturday. 3 a.m.: In India, a plea for peace: 2:18 a.m.: PayPal is shutting its services in Russia, citing "the current circumstances," Reuters reports. 2 a.m.: Russia's blocking of Facebook is a symptom of its broader effort to cut itself off from sources of information that could imperil its internationally condemned invasion of Ukraine, experts say. The often-criticized social network is part of a web of information sources that can challenge the Kremlin's preferred perspective that its assault on Ukraine is righteous and necessary. Blocking of Facebook and restricting of Twitter on Friday came the same day Moscow backed the imposition of jail terms on media publishing "false information" about the military. Agence France-Presse has the story. 1:32 a.m.: The U.S. Embassy in Ukraine says Russia's attack on a Ukrainian nuclear power plant is a war crime. 12:57 a.m.: Formed in a fury to counter Russia’s blitzkrieg attack, Ukraine’s hundreds-strong volunteer “hacker” corps is much more than a paramilitary cyberattack force in Europe's first major war of the internet age. It is crucial to information combat and to crowdsourcing intelligence. “We are really a swarm. A self-organizing swarm," said Roman Zakharov, a 37-year-old IT executive at the center of Ukraine's bootstrap digital army. The Associated Press has the story. 12:30 a.m.: The Russian war on Ukraine is also happening online, as people share images from around Ukraine. Caught in the middle are U.S. technology firms, which have taken steps to curtail Russian propaganda and make changes for Ukrainians’ safety. But it’s a fine line to walk as VOA’s Michelle Quinn reports. No media source currently available 12:05 a.m.: While U.S. President Joe Biden has played a key role in galvanizing Western nations' condemnation of Moscow's aggression against Ukraine, his administration is finding it harder to build a global coalition in the Indo-Pacific to isolate Russian President Vladimir Putin. Key regional partners such as Australia, Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan have announced significant financial sanctions and export controls against Moscow, but others have resisted Western pressure to even condemn the invasion. VOA's Patsy Widakuswara has the story. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.