Russia’s military continued to pound Ukraine with artillery and airstrikes Saturday amid fierce fighting northwest of the capital of Kyiv and in several other cities as Russian troops mass 25 kilometers from the capital. A Russian missile attack destroyed a Ukrainian air base in the city of Vasylkiv early Saturday, according to Mayor Natalia Balasynovych. She said an oil depot also was destroyed, while Russia’s Interfax News Agency quoted Balasynovych as saying Russian rockets destroyed an ammunition depot near Vasylkiv. Ukraine’s foreign ministry tweeted Saturday that Russian forces shelled a mosque in Mariupol where 80 people were sheltering. The ministry did not disclose the timing of the attack, but it said some of those in the mosque were from Turkey. A member of the local Suleiman Mosque Association in Mariupol who was sheltering at the mosque, Ismail Hacioglu, said the mosque was not hit directly but had caught fire, according to Agence France-Presse. Meanwhile, Ukraine’s military has reportedly said Russian forces have captured the city's eastern outskirts, and Ukrainian authorities have warned of a humanitarian catastrophe in the besieged southern port city. Ukrainian officials in Mariupol said Friday more than 1,500 people have been killed since Russia began its assault on the city, a figure that has not been independently confirmed. Several humanitarian corridors will open Saturday, providing residents with a safe passage from the violence in Kyiv, Sumy, Mariupol and other cities, Ukraine’s Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said in a video message. She also expressed hope that Russia would observe the cease-fire to allow for safe evacuations. "I hope that the day will go well, all the planned routes will be open, and Russia will fulfill its obligations to guarantee the cease-fire regime," Vereshchuk said. The governor of the of the Kyiv region, Oleksiy Kuleba, told local reporters Saturday that civilian evacuations from embattled towns in the region were proceeding Saturday and are planned to continue Sunday, despite the fighting and threats of Russian air attacks. "We will try to get people out every day, as long as it's possible to observe a cease-fire," Kuleba said. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said at a news conference Saturday that Russia was sending in more troops after Ukrainian forces disabled 31 of Russia’s battalion tactical groups in what he described as Russia's largest army losses in decades. Zelenskyy did not elaborate, and his claim was not verified. Zelenskyy also said he spoke Saturday with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Emmanuel Macron about pressuring Russia to free the mayor of the city of Melitopol, who Ukraine said was kidnapped Friday by Russian troops. On Friday, a senior U.S. defense official said Russia had widened its war in Ukraine by targeting areas in the west of the country and appears to be regrouping troops near the capital, Kyiv, as the United States and its allies increase sanctions on Moscow. The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity in order to discuss intelligence, confirmed Russia had begun targeting sites in western Ukraine, hitting airfields in Lutsk and Ivano-Frankivsk, part of a salvo of more than 800 missiles launched since the start of the invasion. Ukrainian forces were continuing to mount "an adaptive and nimble" defense that was frustrating Russian forces, the U.S. defense official said. #Ukraine making good use of #drones vs #Russia "They're using them w/terrific effect, especially against Russian ground movements" per senior US defense official Now up to almost 810 #Russia missile launches vs #Ukraine since start of conflict, per senior US defense officialNearly 400 "have been fired from inside Ukraine" per official Almost 400 from inside #Russia 80 from #Belarus 6 from #BlackSea The official also told reporters the U.S. is seeing signs that Russian forces, and the Russian air force in particular, are displaying a "general risk aversion" while also showing their inexperience. "This is not a military that has great expeditionary capability and experience," the official said. "Nothing on this scale." But the official also warned there are indications Russian forces are learning from their early missteps. Other major cities, such as Mariupol and Chernihiv, are increasingly isolated. "We continue to see heavy bombardment" in the southern port city of Mariupol, the defense official said. Sanctions The United States on Friday issued new sanctions on Russia, targeting another group of oligarchs and elites, including the family of Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov, and banning imports of Russian seafood, alcohol and diamonds. The move came after the U.S., the European Union and the Group of Seven leading industrialized nations said they would suspend normal trade relations with Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine. Revoking Russia's "most favored nation" trade status allows the U.S. and its allies to begin the process of raising tariffs on many Russian goods, further weakening Russia's economy, which the International Monetary Fund predicts will slide into a "deep recession" this year. Each country must change Russia's trading status in accordance with its own national procedures, U.S. officials said. In the U.S., the move requires an act of Congress, and both Democratic and Republican lawmakers have signaled their support. The EU on Friday also announced additional sanctions on Russia, including banning the import of iron and steel goods from Russia and the export of luxury goods into Russia. The U.S. and its allies previously imposed an unprecedented array of sanctions and export and banking restrictions designed to pressure Russian President Vladimir Putin into ending his war against Ukraine, the largest in Europe since World War II. Diplomatic front U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with Zelenskyy by phone on Friday, the White House said, updating him on U.S. and ally moves to further raise the cost of war for Russia. Biden also highlighted "how the United States is continuing to surge security, humanitarian and economic assistance to Ukraine." U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris said during a visit to Romania that Putin had shown no willingness to pursue a diplomatic solution to the conflict, one day after Washington warned Moscow about what some observers described as war crimes by Russian forces in Ukraine. Putin disputed Harris' claim Friday, saying, without offering details, that there had been positive developments in talks with Ukraine and that the negotiations "are now being held almost on a daily basis." Harris spoke in Bucharest as she met with Romanian President Klaus Iohannis and other officials on the second stop of a three-day trip to Eastern Europe to discuss the worsening refugee crisis. War crimes allegations Harris said in Poland earlier this week that she supported a U.N. inquiry into Russia's invasion of Ukraine that would look at "all alleged rights violations and abuses, and related crimes." "Absolutely there should be an investigation, and we should all be watching," the vice president said before a meeting in Warsaw with Polish President Andrzej Duda in a show of support for NATO's allies in Eastern Europe. No media source currently available Harris' comments came one day after a Russian airstrike on a children's hospital with a maternity ward. The attack in Mariupol killed at least three people, including a child, according to Ukrainian officials. Russia has denied targeting civilians in its invasion of Ukraine. It is challenging to determine whether war crimes took place because it is difficult to determine intent, State Department spokesman Ned Price said Friday. "The element that requires due diligence and investigation is that element of intentionality. Was it the intent of Russian fighter jets, was it the intention of Russian commanders at sea, to drop munitions, to fire missiles, to use force against civilians?" Price said. The U.S. and other countries are in the process of documenting and investigating Russia's actions, he added. Security Council meeting0 U.N. High Representative for Disarmament Affairs Izumi Nakamitsu said at an emergency Security Council meeting Friday that the U.N. was "not aware" of biological or chemical weapons being developed in Ukraine with help from the U.S., as alleged by Russia without evidence. The U.S. and Ukraine have denied Russia's allegations. Russia had requested the meeting after its production of biological weapons came under questioning by the council during a session on Syria. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield told council members the Biden administration was "deeply concerned" about Russia's allegations, saying they were part of a "false flag effort" to lay the groundwork for its own use of biological or chemical weapons in Ukraine. A senior U.S. defense official said earlier Friday that "this harping ... could be building some sort of pretext for a false flag event." National Security Correspondent Jeff Seldin and Senior Diplomatic Correspondent Cindy Saine contributed to this report. Some information came from The Associated Press, Agence France-Presse and Reuters.