For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EDT: 11:47 a.m.: An International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) team arrived in Zaporizhzhia Thursday, with pre-positioned relief items and medical supplies to be ready on Friday to facilitate the safe passage of civilians out of Mariupol and bring aid into the city, according to an ICRC statement. Lucile Marbeau, an ICRC staff member present with the teams preparing the operation tomorrow, said: “In these trucks, there is food, medicine, relief items for those civilians who decide to stay in Mariupol and who will need to be both protected and to have humanitarian aid.” For the operation to be a success, militaries on the ground need to provide security guarantees and practical agreements to allow aid in and for those who wish to evacuate safely, the ICRC said. If the operation goes forward, the ICRC will lead the convoy out of Mariupol, it said. 11:41 a.m. : A Ukrainian girl seen singing in a viral video while in a Kyiv bomb shelter is using her newfound fame to help raise money for her homeland. VOA’s Eastern Europe Chief Myroslava Gongadze caught up with Amelia Anisovych, 7, and her family in Poland, where they are living as refugees. No media source currently available 11:24 a.m.: Ukraine's state nuclear company Energoatom said on Thursday that most of the Russian forces that occupied the Chernobyl nuclear power station after invading Ukraine had left the defunct plant, and only a "small number" remained, Reuters reported. Russian forces have also retreated from the nearby town of Slavutych, where workers at Chernobyl live, it said. Though Russian troops seized control of Chernobyl soon after the February 24 invasion, the plant's Ukrainian staff continued to oversee the safe storage of spent nuclear fuel and supervise the concrete-encased remains of the reactor that exploded in 1986. There was no immediate comment from the Russian authorities, who have denied that its forces have put nuclear facilities in Ukraine at risk. 11:15 a.m. : Russia’s tech workers are looking for safer and more secure professional pastures. By one estimate, up to 70,000 computer specialists, spooked by a sudden frost in the business and political climate, have bolted the country since Russia invaded Ukraine five weeks ago. Many more are expected to follow. The Associated Press reports that as Russia undergoes a tech brain drain, other nations hope to gain from it. 11:01 a.m.: U.S. Representative to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield will travel to Moldova and Romania April 2-4 to focus on Moldova and Romania’s efforts to assist refugees coming from Ukraine and the humanitarian needs created by the Russian Federation’s aggression and war against Ukraine, VOA’s UN Correspondent Margaret Besheer reported. According to the U.N., more than 90 percent of refugees who have fled Ukraine are women and children. 10:50 a.m.: “Unfriendly countries” can continue to pay for natural gas in foreign currency through a Russian bank that will convert the money into rubles, according to a Kremlin decree published by state media Thursday. This comes a day after the leaders of Italy and Germany said they received assurances from Russian President Vladimir Putin that they would not have to pay in rubles, a move Putin had earlier insisted on. The decree Putin signed and published by state news agency RIA Novosli says a designated bank will open two accounts for each buyer, one in foreign currency and one in rubles, The Associated Press reported. 10:43 a.m.: OPEC and allied oil producers including Russia decided Thursday to stick to a modest increase in the amount of crude they pump to the world, a step that supports higher prices, even as U.S. President Joe Biden’s administration plans to try to lower costs by releasing oil from strategic reserves, The Associated Press reported. The alliance has been unmoved by pleas from oil-consuming countries to pump more oil as energy prices soar, fueling inflation worldwide. High prices have helped Russia – the world’s largest exporter – offset some of the economic pain from Western sanctions over its invasion of Ukraine. 10:39 a.m.: The city of Lviv in western Ukraine has become a refuge for hundreds of thousands of refugees from all over the country. One local soccer stadium, built for the 2021 Euro Cup, has been turned into a refugee center. VOA’s Anna Kosstutschenko has this report. No media source currently available 10:31 a.m.: Greenpeace activists on Thursday blocked two oil tankers off the coast of Denmark from transferring 100,000 tons of Russian oil, in what the organization said was an attempt to stop funding Russia's invasion of Ukraine. In kayaks and rhib boats, the activists placed themselves between the oil tankers Seaoath and Pertamina Prime near Frederikshavn, Denmark, preventing the ship-to-ship oil transfer, Reuters reported. 10:29 a.m.: Taiwan's defense ministry has set up a working group to study the tactics of the war in Ukraine, including how the country has been able to hold out against Russia, and has been discussing this with the United States, its minister said Thursday. Taiwan, claimed by China as its own territory, has raised its alert level since the Russian invasion, wary of Beijing possibly making a similar move on the island, though it has reported no signs this is about to happen. Reuters has this story. 10:21 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Australia's parliament on Thursday that Russia must be held accountable for past wrongs, Reuters reported. Zelenskyy called for new and tougher sanctions to retaliate against Russia's invasion of Ukraine and suggested that years of failure to rein in the global power had emboldened Moscow. "If we don't stop Russia now, if we don't hold Russia accountable, then some other countries of the world who are looking forward to a similar war against their neighbors will decide that such things are possible for them as well," Zelenskyy said in the video address, according to an official translation. 10:17 a.m.: In Ukraine’s eastern Kharkiv region, the Ukrainian military shows off armor and equipment that was left behind by invading Russian troops after a battle. Some will be reused by Ukraine’s armed forces, while other pieces will be left where they are. Roman Pahulych and Pavlo Kholodov from Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty have this story.  10:09 a.m.: Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs tweeted photos of destroyed buildings Thursday, quoting President Volodymyr Zelenskyy saying, “Russian missiles and air bombs hit our cities and civilian infrastructure every day. There are no forbidden targets for Russian troops. They attack everything from hospitals to airports, from grocery stores to residential areas." .@ZelenskyyUa: “🇷🇺missiles and air bombs hit our cities and civilian infrastructure every day. There are no forbidden targets for 🇷🇺troops. They attack everything from hospitals to airports, from grocery stores to residential areas.📸 A.Messinis, A.Kent, C.McGrath, S.Mykhalchuk pic.twitter.com/EP8jCjCrrG  10:02 a.m.: Ukraine's president said his country's defense against the Russian invasion was at a "turning point" on Thursday, The Associated Press reported. "If we really are fighting for freedom and in defense of democracy together, then we have a right to demand help in this difficult turning point,” Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address to the nation. “Tanks, aircraft, artillery systems. Freedom should be armed no worse than tyranny." There seemed little faith that Russia and Ukraine will resolve the conflict soon, particularly after the Russian military's about-face and its most recent attacks around Kyiv, the northern city of Chernihiv, and elsewhere in the country. Talks between Ukraine and Russia were set to resume Friday by video, according to the head of the Ukrainian delegation, David Arakhamia. But Zelenskyy said the continuing negotiations with Russia were only "words without specifics." Britain's Defense Ministry confirmed "significant Russian shelling and missile strikes" around Chernihiv. It said Thursday that "Russian forces continue to hold positions to the east and west of Kyiv despite the withdrawal of a limited number of units. Heavy fighting will likely take place in the suburbs of the city in coming days." Also Thursday a top British intelligence official said that demoralized Russian soldiers in Ukraine were refusing to carry out orders and sabotaging their own equipment and had accidentally shot down their own aircraft. 9:43 a.m.: Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba met with Poland’s President Andrzej Duda Thursday. Kuleba shared some official video from the visit, saying he highly values Poland’s strong support for Ukraine. In development of their active dialogue with President @ZelenskyyUa, Polish President @AndrzejDuda received me in Warsaw today. We highly value Poland’s strong support for Ukraine and hospitality towards Ukrainians. Free and strong Ukraine means free and strong Poland and Europe. https://t.co/h3vHuqtgV2  9:31 a.m.: Britain on Thursday announced sanctions on 14 more Russian entities and people, including on state media organizations behind RT and Sputnik and some of their senior figures, saying it was targeting those who push out President Vladimir Putin's "fake news and narratives." Among those sanctioned on Thursday were RT's managing director Alexey Nikolov, Sergey Brilev, a prominent news anchor at the state-owned Rossiya Television and Radio network, and Sputnik's Editor-in-Chief Anton Anisimov, Reuters reported. The government said it was also directly sanctioning state media organizations, including Kremlin funded TV-Novosti which owns RT, and Rossiya Segodnya, which controls news agency Sputnik. "Putin’s war on Ukraine is based on a torrent of lies," Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said in a statement. 9:08 a.m.: The head of Ukraine's state nuclear company Energoatom urged the U.N.’s International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on Thursday to help ensure Russian nuclear officials do not interfere in the operation of nuclear power plants occupied by Russian forces, Reuters reported. Since invading Ukraine on Feb. 24, Russian troops have occupied Europe's largest nuclear power plant at Zaporizhzhia and the now defunct plant at Chernobyl, scene of the world's worst nuclear accident in 1986. "(The IAEA) can influence this and they must influence this, and this question will be discussed," Energoatom CEO Petro Kotin said. The IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi is in Ukraine, and has visited the South Ukraine Nuclear Power Plant, held discussions with Ukrainian officials, and was providing support, according to an official statement. “It is vital to be on the ground in order to provide effective support to Ukraine in these extremely difficult times,” Grossi said. “The IAEA’s on-site presence, where needed, will help prevent the danger of a nuclear accident.” Wrapping up busy day of very intensive and productive meetings with senior Ukrainian government officials at South Ukraine Nuclear Power Plant today. ⁰@IAEAorg expert teams and additional safety equipment will arrive very soon to #Ukraine’s nuclear facilities. pic.twitter.com/S2l8ogcNAe  8:54 a.m.: Suggestions by U.S. officials that President Vladimir Putin’s advisers are afraid to tell him awkward truths about Russia’s military campaign in Ukraine show how little they understand him or Russia’s government, the Kremlin said on Thursday. “To our regret - and, in fact, this probably even causes our concern - it turns out that neither the State Department nor the Pentagon has real information about what is happening in the Kremlin,” Putin’s spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, told reporters. Reuters has this story. 8:20 a.m.: VOA’s National Security Correspondent Jeff Seldin followed the latest assessment by British military intelligence of developments in Ukraine, and tweeted some highlights. NEW: #Britain military intelligence warns of looming battles near #Kyiv"#Russia|n forces continue to hold positions to the east & west...despite the withdrawal of a ltd number of units" per @MickSmeathUK "Heavy fighting will likely take place in the suburbs...in coming days"  8:07 a.m.: VOA’s Tatiana Vorozhko reports that many Ukrainians struggle to talk to their Russian relatives about the realities of the war they are experiencing. 7:45 a.m.: The U.S. Mission to NATO on Thursday tweeted video footage of an arctic military exercise involving 30,000 troops from allied and partner countries in Norway. The exercise comes at a time of high tension across Europe after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, but officials say the military exercise had been planned for a long time. Exercise #ColdResponse2022 brings together 30,000 troops from 27 @NATO Allied and partner countries in the High North. This long-planned exercise tests troops’ ability to work together in cold weather conditions on land, in the air, and at sea. pic.twitter.com/kINAJ55NJb  7:35 a.m.: Russian forces in Ukraine are not withdrawing but regrouping, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Thursday. He was commenting on Moscow’s announcements about a scaling down of military operations around Kyiv, Reuters reported. “According to our intelligence, Russian units are not withdrawing but repositioning. Russia is trying to regroup, resupply and reinforce its offensive in the Donbas region,” Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels. “At the same time, Russia maintains pressure on Kyiv and other cities. So we can expect additional offensive actions, bringing even more suffering,” he said. Moscow says it is now focusing on “liberating” the Donbas region - two southeastern provinces partly controlled by separatists Russia has backed since 2014. 7:20 a.m.: Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said on Thursday he was working with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) on the return of Ukrainians who have been "abducted or forcibly relocated" to Russia. Ukraine has accused Russia of forcibly deporting thousands of Ukrainian civilians to Russia since invading on Feb. 24. Russia has said it is conducting civilian evacuations from Ukrainian frontline areas. Talked to the President of @ICRC @PMaurerICRC. Agreed on organization of humanitarian corridors. From Ukraine to Ukraine! Discussed joint financial support of Ukrainians in @diiagovua. Working on returning home Ukrainians abducted or forcibly relocated to rf.  7:17 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin told Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi that conditions were not yet in place for a ceasefire in Ukraine, Draghi told a news conference on Thursday when asked about a telephone call with Putin the previous day, Reuters reported. 7:03 a.m.: Russia’s currency rebound raises questions about the impact of Western sanctions, The Associated Press reported. The Russian ruble has bounced back from the fall it took after the U.S. and European allies moved to bury the Russian economy under thousands of new sanctions over its invasion of Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin has resorted to extreme financial measures to blunt the West’s penalties and inflate his currency. 6:51 a.m.: President Vladimir Putin on Thursday signed a decree ordering 134,500 new conscripts into the army as part of Russia's annual spring draft, but the defense ministry said the call-up had nothing to do with the war in Ukraine, Reuters reported. The annual spring military draft, which runs from April 1 to July 15, will affect Russian men between the ages of 18 and 27, Putin's decree said. The order came five weeks into Russia's invasion, which has run into fierce Ukrainian resistance. Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said on Tuesday that none of those called up would be sent to any "hot spots". The issue of conscripts' involvement in the war is highly sensitive. On March 9, the defense ministry acknowledged that some had been sent to Ukraine after Putin had denied this on various occasions, saying only professional soldiers and officers had been sent in. 6:42 a.m.: Ukrainian forces have liberated the Russian-occupied village of Kukhari in the Vyshhorod district of the Kyiv region. But Russian forces continued to bombard the village with artillery and aircraft. Levko Stek, who was on the ground during one of the attacks, has this story for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. 6:36 a.m.: Ukrainian forces are preparing for new Russian attacks in the southeast region where Moscow's guns are now trained after its assault on the capital Kyiv was repelled, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Thursday. Tough resistance by Ukrainian forces has prevented Russia from capturing any major city, including the capital Kyiv, which it assaulted with armored columns from the northwest and east, Reuters reported.

In an early morning video address, Zelenskyy said Russian troop movements away from Kyiv and the northern city of Chernihiv were not a withdrawal but rather "the consequence of our defenders' work."

Ukraine was seeing "a build-up of Russian forces for new strikes on the Donbas and we are preparing for that," he said. Moscow says it is now focusing on "liberating" the Donbas region - two southeastern provinces partly controlled by separatists Russia has backed since 2014. 6:15 a.m.: The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said Thursday that it was preparing to facilitate safe passage of civilians from Ukraine’s besieged southern city of Mariupol. “Our teams are traveling right now with pre-positioned relief items and medical supplies to be ready,” the ICRC said in a statement. A convoy of Ukrainian buses set out for the port city on Thursday to try to reach trapped civilians, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said. “For logistics and security reasons, we’ll be ready to lead the safe passage operation tomorrow, Friday, provided all the parties agree to the exact terms, including the route, the start time, and the duration,” it added. “It’s desperately important that this operation takes place. The lives of tens of thousands of people in Mariupol depend on it,” the ICRC said. 5:36 a.m.: British intelligence says that "significant Russian shelling and missile strikes have continued" in Chernihiv, despite Russia earlier indicating it planned to reduce military activity there. Additionally, it said Russia holds positions east and west of Kyiv and that heavy fighting is expected in the city's suburbs in coming days. 5:05 a.m.: The New York Times reports that Russian forces have destroyed an oil terminal in Dnipro, Ukraine. No one was injured or killed. 4:47 a.m.: CNN reports that Australia will increase tariffs on all Russian and Belarusian imports, adding an additional tariff of 35%. 4:18 a.m.: CNN reports that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed Australian lawmakers Thursday, asking for further sanctions on Russia. 3:19 a.m.: CNN reports that Ukraine and Russia will open a humanitarian corridor in Mariupol, Ukraine, where officials say 90% of buildings are now damaged or uninhabitable due to Russian bombings. 2:36 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that the conflict between Ukraine and Russia will batter both nations' economies. According to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Russian economy will contract 10% this year and Ukraine's gross domestic product could shrink by as much as 20%. 1:38 a.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden met Wednesday with the parents of Trevor Reed, an American man wrongly detained in Russia. During the meeting, the White House said, the president "reiterated his commitment to continue to work to secure the release of Trevor, Paul Whelan, and other Americans wrongfully held in Russia and elsewhere, and to provide all possible assistance until they and others are free and returned home to their families who are advocating so passionately for their release." 12:05 a.m.: "It’s genocide. They are destroying everything that lives.​" -- Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko, quoted in The New York Times 12:01 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that U.S. President Joe Biden is planning to tap the country's petroleum reserves, releasing up to 1 million barrels of oil per day to help control gas prices. Prices have soared as countries have enacted sanctions against Russia. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters