For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 6:30 a.m.: Peter Maurer, the president of the International Committee of the Red Cross, has arrived in Kyiv on a five-day visit to Ukraine to urge for greater humanitarian access and protection of civilians, the organization said Wednesday. “After enormous suffering by the civilian population and after our intensive virtual conversations with the Russian and Ukraine governments, I find it utterly important that we have person-to-person contacts, that we are able to go in-depth into the understanding of neutral, independent and impartial humanitarian work, and that our licence to operate in the country is fully understood by the authorities,” Maurer said in a statement. “People in Ukraine are crying out for help. Needs are massive, conditions volatile. We are sparing no effort to answer their call,” Maurer later said in a Twitter post.  5:20 a.m.: NATO defense ministers gathered Wednesday to discuss what Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said would be both the “immediate consequences of Russia’s invasion” and long-term efforts to strengthen NATO’s collective defense. “NATO has a responsibility to ensure that this crisis does not escalate beyond Ukraine, and that's also the reason why we have increased the presence in the eastern part of the alliance,” Stoltenberg told reporters. He has said potential actions could include placing “substantially more forces” in the eastern part of the alliance, along with increases in naval and air deployments, missile defense systems and holding larger and more frequent military exercises.  U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin highlighted support for Ukraine’s ability to defend itself as well as U.S. commitment to aid any NATO ally that comes under attack. “I think our presence here sends a signal to the world that we remain united in our support of Ukraine, and we condemn Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified invasion into Ukraine,” Austin said. Russia has objected to NATO’s presence near its borders and sought a guarantee that Ukraine will never join the alliance. NATO insists countries are free to make their own decisions about security ties. While Ukraine is not part of NATO, seven NATO countries share borders with Russia, Ukraine or Russian ally Belarus, and that proximity has raised concerns of a wider conflict. Stoltenberg said there are 100,000 U.S. troops in Europe and another 40,000 troops under direct NATO command, as well as hundreds of thousands more on heightened alert across NATO nations. 4:30 a.m.: The Netherlands and other NATO countries will continue to deliver weapons to Ukraine even as these deliveries could become the target of Russian attacks, Dutch defense minister Kajsa Ollongren said on Wednesday. “Ukraine has the right to defend itself, we will continue to support it,” Ollongren said at her arrival for a meeting with NATO defense ministers in Brussels, Reuters reported. 4:00 a.m.: VOA’s Yan Boechat documents life in Irpin and Kyiv as Russia’s military assault continues. 3:30 a.m.: Russia said on Tuesday it has written guarantees it can carry out its work as a party to the Iran nuclear deal, suggesting Moscow could allow a revival of the tattered 2015 pact to go forward. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov's comments appeared to signal Moscow may have backed off its previous view that Western sanctions imposed on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine were an impediment to salvaging the nuclear deal, Reuters reports. 3:00 a.m.: The British Ministry of Defence said Wednesday that Russian troops are struggling to overcome challenges posed by Ukraine’s terrain. Russia’s advance has been confined to Ukraine’s roads and highways, the daily battleground intelligence report added. The destruction of bridges by Ukranian forces has “played a key role in stalling Russia’s advance,” the report said. “The tactics of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have adeptly exploited Russia’s lack of manoeuvre, frustrating the Russian advance and inflicting heavy losses on the invading forces.”  2:30 a.m.: Millions of Ukrainians have now fled their country, mostly to Poland, but also to Hungary, Romania, Slovakia and Moldova. In Hungary, there are reports of some Ukrainians deciding to turn back. Jon Spier narrates this report from Gabor Ancsin on Hungary’s border with Ukraine. No media source currently available  1:30 a.m.: As civilians in Ukraine bear the brunt of Russian artillery attacks, the White House announced that President Joe Biden will head to Brussels next week to coordinate deterrence and defense efforts with NATO allies. VOA’s Senior Diplomatic Correspondent Cindy Saine reports.  No media source currently available 1:00 a.m.: In his latest Facebook address, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered a more optimistic assessment of peace talks with Russia. He said the negotiations are starting to “sound more realistic, but time is still needed.” The talks are scheduled to continue today. Ukrainian negotiator Mykhailo Podolyak also said there is “room for compromise” while cautioning that “fundamental contradictions” continue to emerge during the talks. Russia has repeatedly insisted that Ukraine concede the provinces of Donetsk, Luhansk and Crimea. It has also insisted that Ukraine renounce any intention of joining NATO, something Zelenskyy has appeared willing to do.  12:40 a.m.: A funeral ceremony was held in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv on Tuesday for four Ukrainian soldiers who lost their lives following the Russian invasion.  12:00 a.m.: U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken expressed his condolences Tuesday to the journalists killed in Ukraine on Monday. “I am grateful to all those risking their lives to show the world what is happening in Ukraine. The United States condemns Russia's ongoing violence, which is putting the safety of journalists and other media workers in Ukraine at risk.”  Journalists Pierre Zakrzewski and Oleksandra Kuvshynova were killed in an attack that also seriously injured Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall. U.S. broadcaster Fox News on Tuesday announced that cameraman Zakrzewski had died in Ukraine. Kuvshynova, a 24-year-old Ukrainian journalist, also was killed in the same attack. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.