For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 5:22 a.m.: CNN looks at the threat of Russian cyberattacks. US officials warned that a wave of debilitating cyberattacks could accompany Russia's war on Ukraine. So far they haven't materialized, and US and Ukrainian officials are contemplating why as they prepare for the next phase of the war.https://t.co/Opwiw3C1B7 4:50 a.m.: VOA's Jamie Dettmer reports from Warsaw: One of Ukraine’s biggest military training bases, located 25 kilometers from the Polish border in the west of the country, was struck by eight Russian missiles in an attack that has left nine dead and 57 injured, according to Ukraine's defense minister Oleksii Reznikov. The base is only 60 kilometers from Lviv, a major hub for Ukrainian evacuees heading into Poland. The base Yavoriv has also been used by NATO military instructors but Ukrainian officials say they are still trying to establish whether any were on-site at the time of the attack and were injured. The strike on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security is the westernmost attack by Russia so far. “The occupiers launched an airstrike on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security. According to preliminary data, they fired eight missiles,” Anton Mironovich, spokesperson for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, told the Interfax Ukraine news agency. The local governor said 30 missiles hit the base. The airstrike came a few hours after Russia’s deputy foreign minister Sergei Ryabkov warned that western arms convoys to Ukraine were a “legitimate military target.” 4:15 a.m.: In Taiwan, people turned out to protest Russia's invasion. 3:30 a.m.: A former tennis pro from Ukraine is back home to help fight the Russian invasion. ABC News has the story. Sergiy Stakhovsky is a recently retired professional tennis player from Ukraine who has left his wife and three young children at home in Hungary to go back to his birthplace to help how he can during Russia’s invasion. https://t.co/IwZ5BcV9Iw 2:26 a.m.: In Finland, people watching Russia's invasion of Ukraine unfold are remembering the 1939 Winter War. Agence France-Presse has the story. In Finland, Russia's assault on Ukraine has stirred up some painful associations with the 1939 Winter WarRead more: https://t.co/qUb6Innsq9(Previous tweet deleted to remove broken link) 1:55 a.m.: Russian missiles hit a military base in western Ukraine, The New York Times reports. Breaking News: Russian missiles hit a military base in western Ukraine, according to local officials, in a major escalation near the Polish border.https://t.co/WGXAgURTeW 1:25 a.m.: A commentator on Russian state TV criticizes Putin's invasion. CNN has video. 12:55 a.m.: Online auction site eBay is the latest company to suspend dealings with Russians, the BBC reports. 12:25 a.m.: The U.S. Embassy in Kyiv has suggestions on ways to better navigate border crossings: The security situation throughout Ukraine continues to be unpredictable. For those attempting to depart, conditions at each border can change very quickly and wait times can increase without warning. Find specific info on entering neighboring countries: https://t.co/F7ZvDQDiK7 pic.twitter.com/VrSaDsEhzc 12:04 a.m.: The crisis in Ukraine has some Eastern European cities straining to accommodate surging numbers of refugees, Reuters reports. Eastern Europe's efforts to aid Ukrainians fleeing the fighting in their homeland came under strain, with some cities running out of accommodation as the number of refugees passed 2.6 million https://t.co/AwfRm1YCEs pic.twitter.com/yn9kggetMD 12:01 a.m.: Native Americans are wearing kokum scarves as a show of solidarity with Ukraine, Northwest News Network reports. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Agence France-Presse and Reuters.