For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 9:41 a.m. An airplane carrying Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, who was headed to Rzeszow to meet with U.S. President Joe Biden Friday, returned to the capital Warsaw unexpectedly. Sky News, quoting Polish state-run news, reported Duda’s plane made an emergency landing in Warsaw and he was not in any danger. A Polish Government 737, en route to Rzeszów, has returned to Warsaw. According to media the Polish president Andrzej Duda was onboard the aircraft that returned because of a technical problem. pic.twitter.com/7LrphWHrdR 9:22 a.m.: On Friday, the U.N. World Health Organization tweeted out a link to its most recent Emergency in Ukraine External Situation Report. There are many challenges to accessing health care in #UkraineInterruptions in supply of medicines have been reported in cities with active hostilitiesSome areas, such as Mariupol, have suffered critical shortages of medical suppliesSituation report: https://t.co/xz52RQNCf6 pic.twitter.com/xlIEOQP2n2 9:10 a.m.: The United States and the European Union have announced a new partnership to reduce Europe’s reliance on Russian energy. US President Joe Biden made the announcement in Brussels alongside European Commission President, Ursula von der Leyen. The White House released also released a joint statement on European energy security, and a fact sheet on a task force to reduce Europe’s dependence on Russian fossil fuels. 8:38 a.m.: Ukraine’s Ministry of Defense on Friday sent out a tweet praising the people of Ukraine and shared images of ordinary people as they cope with the war. 💬@ZelenskyyUa:Ukraine was beautiful. But now it will be great, because of our people. Glorious Ukraine. Great project for recovery. For the people. For the development of our country and the whole of Europe. pic.twitter.com/L1hdwwjSAH 8:21 a.m.: As Ukrainian troops battle Russian forces, volunteers are helping out where they can. Everything from making hot meals for troops, to creating body armor and sorting donated goods is being done. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty shared these images. 8:15 a.m.: Here are some of the key developments in Russia over the past week and some of the takeaways going forward, according to Steve Gutterman with Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. 8:08 a.m.: A month since the start of the war, almost a quarter of Ukraine’s population is displaced, and “the seriousness of the situation cannot be overstated,” said Karolina Lindholm Billing, UNHCR’s Representative to Ukraine, who was speaking Friday from Lviv. The UN refugee agency released a statement with her assessment of the current situation. 7:42 a.m.: Pope Francis is presiding Friday over a special prayer for Ukraine, The Associated Press reported. The Mass is Francis’ latest effort to rally prayers for an end to the war while keeping open options for dialogue with the Russian Orthodox Church and its influential leader, Patriarch Kirill. Francis has yet to publicly condemn Russia by name for its invasion, though his denunciations have grown increasingly strident and outraged in recent weeks. 7:31 a.m.: Turkey is paying a heavy economic price for its dependency on Ukrainian and Russian wheat, as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine sees wheat exports drying up. The shortages are raising further concerns in Turkey about skyrocketing inflation, as VOA’s Dorian Jones reports from Istanbul. No media source currently available 7:23 a.m.: Finland’s national railway company says it will suspend services between Helsinki and the Russian city of St. Petersburg from this weekend, closing one of the last public transport routes for Russians who want to reach the European Union, The Associated Press reported Friday. Citing the sanctions imposed on Russia, the head of passenger traffic with state-owned VR, Topi Simola, said that “people who wanted to depart from Russia have had adequate time to leave.” 7:18 a.m.: The UN Children’s Fund, UNICEF, on Friday shared the story of two friends – one from Ukraine, the other from Poland – who have reunited in the midst of the Ukraine crisis. A bitter-sweet reunion.When 15-year-old Dasha fled war in Ukraine, her Polish best friend Maya was there to take her whole family in. pic.twitter.com/CupKDUla4S 7:15 a.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden’s visit to Poland as his final stop in Europe this week offers a chance to underscore the U.S. commitment to protect a key NATO member on Ukraine’s doorstep and to thank Poles for their generous welcome to refugees fleeing Russia’s invasion, The Associated Press reports. But Poland is also a complicated ally whose populist leaders are accused by some European partners of riding roughshod over democratic norms. Biden’s two-day visit starting Friday follows a trio of emergency war summits in Brussels. 7:09 a.m.: The Kremlin said on Friday that nothing terrible will happen if the United States and its allies succeed in expelling Russia from the Group of Twenty (G20) major economies because many of the G20's members are at economic war with Moscow anyway, Reuters reported. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov was commenting on remarks by U.S. President Joe Biden who said he favored Russia being pushed out of the G20 after it sent tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine. Peskov said the world was much more diverse than the United States and Europe and predicted that U.S. efforts to isolate Moscow, which he said had so far only been partially effective, would fail. 7:03 a.m.: A number of prominent Russians have quite their jobs, condemned the invasion of Ukraine, and left their posts as state-run institutions and companies, The Associated Press reported Friday. So far there have been no indications that the resignations have reached Russian President Vladimir Putin’s inner circle. The handful of departures came as Putin blasted those opposing his actions as “scum and traitors,” which Russian society would spit out “like a gnat.” 6:58 a.m.: The United States assesses that Russia is suffering failure rates as high as 60% on some days for some of the precision-guided missiles it is using to attack Ukraine, three U.S. officials with knowledge of the intelligence told Reuters. 6:51 a.m.: Ukrainian troops are recapturing towns east of Kyiv and Russian forces who had been trying to seize the capital are falling back on overextended supply lines, Britain said on Friday, one of the strongest indications yet of a shift in momentum in the war, according to Reuters. 6:45 a.m.: Alexei Venediktov, the former editor of shuttered Russian radio station Ekho Moskvy, said Thursday he received threats at his home, VOA’s Press Freedom Editor Jessica Jerreat reports. In a Telegram post, Venediktov said assailants put a sticker containing an antisemitic slur on his door and a pig’s head on the ground. “They wanted to scare me and my family” Venediktov wrote, adding that after he was subjected to a mock execution in Chechnya in 1994, nothing scares him anymore. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has the story. 6:42 a.m.: Officials in Ukraine said Friday about 300 people died in a Russian airstrike last week on a theater in Mariupol, Ukraine, according to the Associated Press. The theater, which was being used as a bomb shelter, had a large sign on it reading "Children" when it was bombed on March 16. 5:37 a.m.: Ukraine hopes to open a safe corridor to evacuate civilians from the city of Mariupol on Friday, Al Jazeera reports. 5:23 a.m.: The U.K.'s latest intelligence assessment says that Russia's supply lines are overextended and that Ukrainian forces are retaking some areas they'd lost, the BBC reports. 4:29 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that Germany wants to cut its dependence on Russian oil by 50% by summer and have no Russian hard coal imports by autumn. 3:52 a.m.: U.S. independent think tank the Institute for the Study of War says Russian forces have entered the central part of Mariupol, the BBC reports. The besieged port city has been surrounded by Russian troops since the beginning of the month. 3:05 a.m.: CNN reports that satellite images show much of the city of Izyum, Ukraine, has been destroyed by Russian shelling. Wrecked buildings include a school and a hospital. 1:33 a.m.: The U.N. refugee agency says about 270,000 Ukrainians have moved to Russia since the invasion began, The Washington Post reports. Russia and Ukraine say the number is closer to 400,000, with Russia saying people fled east by choice and Ukraine saying Russia is forcibly moving people. 12:40 a.m.: Al Jazeera reported that Japan has announced more Russian sanctions and an additional $100 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine and neighboring countries supporting it. 12:09 a.m.: CNN reported that according to a U.S. assessment, Ukraine likely had a successful strike against Russian ships in Berdyansk. It wasn't clear what weapons were used in the attack. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.