For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 4:43 a.m.: The U.N. migration agency said Thursday that the number of people fleeing Ukraine seeking refuge in neighboring countries has topped 2.3 million since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine two weeks ago. 4:37 a.m.: The U.K. government sanctioned 7 Russian oligarchs Thursday in what it said was a “£15bn sanction hit,” including Roman Abramovich, a Russian oligarch and the owner of the English Premier League soccer club Chelsea. 4:21 a.m.: CNN reports that the Russian bombing of a Ukrainian hospital killed at least three people. 3:44 a.m.: Ukraine’s spokesperson Oleg Nikolenko tweeted that a high-level meeting between Russia and Ukraine foreign ministers began Thursday.  3:40 a.m.: Agence France-Presse breaks down media boycotts, bans and restrictions: 3:12 a.m.: As Turkey and Israel take their biggest step in years toward reviving strained relations, some analysts say the two regional powers prefer going it alone in another diplomatic effort -- trying to mediate a peaceful resolution of Russia’s war on Ukraine. VOA's Michael Lipin has the story. 2:46 a.m.: Rich Russians are trying to shift some of their wealth from Europe to Dubai to shield assets from a tightening wave of Western sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, financial and legal sources said. Dubai, the Gulf’s freewheeling financial and business hub, has long been a magnet for the globe’s ultra-rich and the United Arab Emirates’ refusal to take sides between Western allies and Moscow has signaled to Russians that their money is safe there. Reuters has the story. 2:26 a.m.: Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba arrived in Antalya, Turkey, to meet with his counterpart, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. 1:55 a.m.: Since the Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began two weeks ago, the World Health Organization said it has confirmed 18 attacks on medical facilities.  The latest such attack includes a children’s hospital in the southern port city of Mariupol with a bomb leaving a crater several meters deep. Rights groups say siege tactics there have left residents without running water or electricity for days. VOA Pentagon correspondent Carla Babb reports. No media source currently available 1:33 a.m.: The British Ministry of Defence said Russian forced “made little progress in over a week” in its latest battleground intelligence report released Thursday. “As casualties mount, Putin will be forced to draw from across Russian armed forces and other sources to replace losses,” the report added. 1:22 a.m.: In its latest daily operational report issued Thursday, Ukraine’s military said Russian advance into Kyiv has slowed down, including in Donetsk, Slobozhansky and part of the Tavrij districts. It has now been 15 days since Russia invaded Ukraine. Russian forces have “reduced the pace” the report by Ukraine’s general staff of the armed forces said, adding that Moscow’s soldiers are “demoralized” and that “the number of cases of desertification and looting has increased significantly.” 1:10 a.m.: Ukrainian Paralympians make a statement. 12:40 a.m.: Ukraine is preparing to protect its data and servers from Russian forces. Reuters has the story. 12:04 a.m.: CNN looks at the plight of Ukrainian refugees in Romania.  12:01 a.m.: The U.S. House of Representatives approved a spending bill Wednesday that includes $13.6 billion in aid to Ukraine as it continues to fight back against Russian aggression. The aid to Ukraine has been endorsed by bipartisan leaders in the Senate but is part of a larger omnibus bill still being negotiated. The support includes: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi celebrated the bill’s passage and said she spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesday, assuring him of continued U.S. support. “We talked about a range of issues, including Putin’s heinous murder of babies, children and mothers, and America's unwavering support for Ukraine,” she tweeted. “We will also pass our strong, bipartisan bill to ban Russian oil and energy products and taking further actions to diminish Russia’s economy,” Pelosi added. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters.