For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 12:05 p.m.: Inside Ukraine in Pictures on Day 19 after Russia's invasion 11:12 a.m.: U.S. drugmaker Pfizer Inc said on Monday it would maintain humanitarian supply of medicines to Russia but would refrain from starting new clinical trials in the country and recruiting patients for ongoing studies, Reuters reports. Pfizer said it would work with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulators to transition all clinical trials to alternative sites outside Russia. It will continue providing drugs to the patients already enrolled in studies. A voluntary pause in the flow of medicines to Russia would be "in direct violation of our foundational principle of putting patients first", Pfizer said. "Ending delivery of medicines, including cancer or cardiovascular therapies, would cause significant patient suffering and potential loss of life," it added. The sanctions, which leave out medicine and medical equipment, have cut off Russian banks from the international financial system, thereby disrupting the movement of goods into the country. Pfizer said it would donate all profits from its unit in the country to causes that provide support to the people of Ukraine. Pfizer, which does not own or operate any manufacturing sites in Russia, said it would stop all planned investments with local suppliers intended to build manufacturing capacity in the country. 10:58 a.m.: Harvard University’s Nieman Foundation, which runs programs promoting and elevating the standards of journalism, has published a remembrance of American journalist Brent Renaud who was shot and killed in Irpin, Ukraine yesterday. Renaud was a documentary filmmaker and photographer and a member of the Nieman class of 2019. 10:41 a.m.: Poland’s Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau addressed the United Nations Security Council as the current chairman of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Monday. Speaking about Ukraine, he said the door to diplomacy is still open. “We cannot stay indifferent,” he said. VOA’s UN Correspondent Margaret Besheer reports.   10:27 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will deliver a virtual address to members of the U.S. House and Senate on Wednesday. “The Congress, our country and the world are in awe of the people of Ukraine,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Shumer said in a statement released Monday. Zelenskyy spoke by video with House and Senate lawmakers earlier this month, delivering a desperate plea for more military aid. Congress recently approved $13.6 billion in emergency military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine. 10:18 a.m.: The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has highlighted Ukraine’s unique culture in a series of Twitter posts, and described efforts to preserve it in the face of Russia’s military invasion. On Monday UNESCO brought attention to traditional Cossack songs from the Dnipropetrovsk Region in Ukraine, which recount the tragedy of war. 10:00 a.m.: The United Nations Security Council holds its annual meeting with the Organization for Security and Cooperation (OSCE) in Europe Monday. Among its key duties is monitoring the repeatedly broken ceasefire in eastern Ukraine, according to UN organizers. Poland holds the rotating chairmanship of the OSCE, and its Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau is coming to New York and will speak at the UNSC meeting. He will also meet U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and other U.N. officials. Under Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs Rosemary DiCarlo is also expected to brief, the UN stated. VOA’s UN Correspondent Margaret Besheer is monitoring the proceedings. 9:35 a.m.: Rescue efforts continued Monday at an apartment building hit by Russian artillery in Ukraine’s capital Kiev, The Associated Press reports. 9:28 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed a law allowing Russian airlines to operate leased planes without a foreign certificate, Reuter quoted news agency Tass as saying Monday. Sanctions imposed after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine give leasing firms until March 28 to free themselves from deals with Russian airlines. 9:21 a.m.: Warsaw’s central railway station is packed on a chilly evening. Two trains have arrived from the border and disgorge a mass of disheveled, tired people, and blinking children, to join the already jam-packed main entrance hall, where families clutch bowls of soup and bottled water proffered by the volunteers. VOA’s Jamie Dettmer, in Poland, spoke with some of the refugees and has this Reporter’s Notebook account of their journey. 9:19 a.m.: Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said 20 civilians were killed and another 28 wounded by a ballistic missile launched by the Ukrainian forces Monday in the eastern city of Donetsk, center of the separatist Donetsk region, The Associated Press reports. Konashenkov said the missile was fired from an area northwest of Donetsk controlled by Ukrainian forces. His claim could not be independently verified, AP added. 9:06 a.m.: The Ukrainian state power company said Monday the power line supplying the Chernobyl nuclear facility was damaged by Russian forces again, after it was repaired, according to The Associated Press. The Ukrenergo company said in a statement that its technicians had started to supply power Sunday evening but “before the power supply was fully restored, the occupying forces damaged it again.” Ukrenergo said it will attempt another repair. The International Atomic Energy Agency has played down concerns over the safety of nuclear waste at Chernobyl, saying that cooling ponds there are large enough to keep the spent nuclear fuel in safe condition even if the power supply is interrupted. 8:33 a.m.: A top Red Cross official says the ongoing Russian war on Ukraine has become “nothing short of a nightmare” for those living in besieged cities. Robert Mardini, the director-general of the International Committee of the Red Cross, also called the war “catastrophic” for civilians affected by the fighting. He told The Associated Press on Monday that people are out of drinking water, food, medical supplies and fuel for heating — particularly in the surrounded Ukrainian city of Mariupol. While the Red Cross continues to speak with Russian and Ukrainian leaders, there’s so far been no established routes for people to safely leave Mariupol and some other areas facing intense warfare. Earlier, Mardini said on Twitter that history will look back “with horror” if no agreement is reached in Mariupol. 8:19 a.m.: The European Union said Monday it is providing concrete assistance to the people of Ukraine including medical and shelter supplies. 8:05 a.m.: Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian will head to Moscow on March 15 for discussions on the Iran nuclear deal, the Iranian Foreign Ministry said. The announcement comes days after France, Britain, and Germany warned of a risk that talks on an almost-completed revived nuclear deal could collapse over Russia’s demands to have its trade with Iran guaranteed amid massive sanctions on Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reports. 7:47 a.m.: Two people were killed in Russian strikes on Ukraine’s capital Kyiv Monday, and an aircraft factory was set ablaze, Reuters reports. At least one person was killed when a Russian shell smashed into an apartment block in Kyiv on Monday and a second person was killed by falling debris after a missile strike on another part of the Ukrainian capital, city authorities said.

Ukrainian television footage showed firefighters clambering through rubble and up a ladder into what was left of the smoldering apartment block that was hit in Kyiv's Obolon district. A corpse lay on the ground, the face covered.

Also, three Russian rockets hit the Antonov aircraft factory in Kyiv and firefighters "localized" a blaze at the plant, Deputy Mayor Mykola Povoroznyk said. There were no immediate reports of any deaths at the factory.

Meanwhile, more than 2,400 civilians have been killed in the southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol since Russia invaded the country last month, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said on Monday. Borrell, speaking at a news conference in Skopje, said that more than 2.6 million people have fled Ukraine and the number of refugees could swell to 4-5 million. 7:32 a.m. On her first Shabbat away from the fighting in Ukraine, Rabbi Julia Gris twice led services to welcome the Jewish holy day. A week earlier, Ukraine's only woman rabbi had been fleeing the war that scattered her Odesa congregation from Moldova to Romania and Israel. Some stayed behind, braving the Russian shelling. 7:04 a.m.: The UN refugee agency reports that as of Monday, over 2.8 million refugees have fled Ukraine since Russia launched its invasion on February 24. Two U.S. college students have developed a website to try to help Ukrainian refugees seeking shelter in the region. “UkraineTakeShelter.com is an independent platform connecting Ukrainian refugees with potential hosts and housing,” according to their website. The concept was developed by Avi Schiffmann and Marco Burstein, two undergraduate students at Harvard University, who say that the platform acts as a public bulletin board matching refugees with people offering places to stay and has been attracting thousands of viewers since it was launched earlier this month. Observers note this is one of many efforts, public and private, underway to assist Ukrainian refugees in the region. 6:57 am.: Talks between Russia and Ukraine have resumed Monday, a scheduled meeting held through a video conference. “The parties actively express their specified positions. Communication is being held yet it’s hard,” Mykhaylo Podolyak, a senior adviser to Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskiyy, said in a Twitter post. “The reason for the discord is too different political systems.”  Earlier, Podolyak said he was ready for a “difficult discussion” with Russia, to resume the planned negotiation. “The fourth round of negotiations. On peace, a cease-fire, an immediate troop pullout and security guarantees.” Podolyak said. Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the two countries have attempted to negotiate three times before March 14 but with no clear outcome. 6:00 a.m.: A bipartisan group of senators are calling for assistance in Ukraine since Russia’s invasion of the country in February. “Some favoring the no-fly zone, delivery of the aircrafts and air defense system,” reports VOA’s Eastern Europe Chief Myroslava Gongadze.  5:30 a.m.: Ukrainian and Russian delegations resume peace talks Monday, a day after Russia launched a lethal cruise missile attack on a western Ukraine military base just 25 kilometers from Poland, a NATO member. At least 35 people died and 134 were wounded in the attack on the International Center for Peacekeeping and Security. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Sunday in his daily nighttime address that Sunday was a “black day” for the country because of the attack. The president said he had given a “clear warning” to Western leaders about the likelihood of an attack at the base where NATO units train with Ukrainian troops. Meanwhile, Ukraine’s human rights ombudswoman says the Russians used a phosphorus munition in an overnight attack on the eastern Ukrainian city of Popasna in the Luhansk region. Ukraine’s human rights ombudswoman, Liudmila Denisova, shared a photograph purporting to show the alleged attack, but did not say if Ukraine had concrete evidence, Reuters reported. “The bombing of a civilian city by the Russian attackers with these weapons is a war crime and a crime against humanity according to the Rome convention,” she said. VOA was not immediately able to verify the claim. While phosphorus is not considered a chemical weapon, its use against human beings is banned under international law. 4:51 a.m.: Australia has imposed fresh sanctions on wealthy Russian entrepreneurs because of the Kremlin’s invasion of Ukraine. The move is part of Australia’s strategy to penalize people of economic and political value to Russia. For VOA, Phil Mercer reports from Sydney.  4:30 a.m.: Sunday’s closing ceremony of the 2022 Winter Paralympics in Beijing marked the end of an almost six-week run for international sports in the Chinese capital that began with the opening of the Winter Olympics on February 4th. President Xi Jinping was on hand as the Paralympic flag was passed to the mayor and vice-mayor of Milan — Cortina, Italy, where the next Winter Paralympics will be held in 2026. The Beijing Paralympics opened just eight days after Russia, aided by Belarus, invaded Ukraine. The International Paralympic Committee, after initially declining to bar Russian and Belarusian athletes, reversed course and removed their 83 athletes — 71 from Russia and 12 from Belarus. Ukraine, with only 20 athletes competing, finished second to China in the medal standings. The ceremony ended a run for Asia of hosting four of the last eight Olympics and Paralympics, starting with the 2008 Beijing Olympics. 4:00 a.m.: Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba called on allies to assist in the country’s fight against Russia’s invasion and “avert a larger war.” Some Western governments fear that doing so could pull other countries, including NATO member states, into the war, according to Reuters. “We need you to help us fight. Provide us with all necessary weapons. Apply more sanctions on Russia and isolate it fully,” Kuleba said in a Twitter post Monday.  3:54 a.m.: Every Sunday, dozens of Ukrainian and Russian Christian believers congregate at First Russian Baptist Church in Mount Crawford, Virginia. As Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues, these worshippers say they condemn violence and are focusing on what unites them. VOA’s Yahya Barzinji visited the church, spoke to congregants and filed this report narrated by Namo Abdulla. No media source currently available 3:35 a.m.: Russia continues its unprovoked attack on neighboring Ukraine as the invasion rolls through a third week. On Sunday dozens of people were killed when Russia launched a missile attack on a military training base in western Ukraine near the country’s border with Poland. VOA’s Arash Arabasadi has more. No media source currently available 3:15 a.m.: A government source told Reuters Monday that Germany will purchase up to 35 F-35 fighter jets. The news agency reported earlier that the government in Berlin had decided in principle to buy the U.S. fighter jets. 2:30 a.m.: A residential nine-story building in Ukraine’s capital Kyiv was on fire Monday due to Russian shelling, the Kyiv Independent newspaper reported.  State emergency service officials said that the fire broke out shortly after 5 a.m. local time in Obolonskyi district of Ukraine’s capital.   1:30 a.m.: The WHO warned that the war in Ukraine could lead to COVID-19 outbreaks in the region. Ukraine’s vaccination rate is about 34% but vaccination efforts have all but stopped due to the fighting. Approximately 2 million Ukrainians have been forced to flee and many inside and outside of the country are living in close quarters where the virus can spread quickly. Since the outbreak, the country has also experienced a polio outbreak and a nationwide polio vaccine program had to be halted due to the fighting. The WHO also denounced Russian attacks on health care facilities and workers. The organization has reported 31 attacks against health care facilities, ambulances and other locations resulting in 12 deaths. A joint statement from UNICEF, WHO and the United Nations Population Fund said: “For the sake of health workers, and for all people in Ukraine who need access to the lifesaving services they provide, attacks on all health care and other civilian infrastructure must stop.”  12:30 a.m.: The U.K. Ministry of Defence reported that Russian naval forces have established a “distant blockade” of Ukraine’s Black Sea coast “effectively isolating Ukraine from international maritime trade.” In addition to preventing trade in and out, Russian naval vessels are conducting missile strikes and Russia conducted an amphibious landing of forces from the Sea of Azov, the ministry reported.  12:15 a.m.: Exclusive via Reuters: Ukraine war must end, Russia’s fertilizer and coal king says The war in Ukraine is a tragedy that must be stopped or there will be a global food crisis as fertilizer prices are already too high for many farmers, Russia’s coal and fertilizer king Andrei Melnichenko said on Monday. “The events in Ukraine are truly tragic. We urgently need peace,” Melnichenko, 50, who is Russian but was born in Belarus and has a Ukrainian mother, told Reuters in a statement emailed by his spokesman. “As a Russian by nationality, a Belarusian by birth, and a Ukrainian by blood, I feel great pain and disbelief witnessing brotherly peoples fighting and dying.” 12:00 a.m.: President Joe Biden’s National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan will fly to Rome on Monday to meet with Chinese Foreign Policy Adviser Yang Jiechi to discuss the two countries’ stances on Russia’s war in Ukraine. Beijing has been unwilling to strongly condemn Russia’s actions or to levy sanctions since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The New York Times reported on Sunday that Russia has requested military and economic aid from China. Sullivan is expected to tell his counterpart that the U.S. condemns any effort to help Russia evade sanctions or conduct the war. “We are communicating directly, privately to Beijing, that there will absolutely be consequences for large-scale sanctions evasion efforts or support to Russia to backfill them,” Sullivan said Sunday on CNN. “We will not allow that to go forward and allow there to be a lifeline to Russia from these economic sanctions from any country, anywhere in the world.” Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters. 