Russian and Belarusian athletes were banned Tuesday from international events by the governing bodies for badminton, rowing and skiing in the latest round of similar sanctions in reaction to the invasion of Ukraine. Belarus has been included for serving as a staging point for some Russian troops entering Ukraine. The Badminton World Federation, on Monday, canceled events in Russia and Belarus and then banned athletes from those countries from events beginning next week. Some athletes from Russia and Belarus will be allowed to compete in a tournament this week in Spain but will compete as individuals. The ban on rowers from the two countries takes place immediately, according to World Rowing. "World Rowing strongly condemns the Russian military invasion of Ukraine and the ensuing violation of the Olympic Truce," the governing body said. A similar statement was issued by the International Ski Federation. The International Skating Union and the International Volleyball Federation have made similar moves. 

Russia has also been suspended from the International Basketball Federation. On Sunday, the International Tennis Federation said it would cancel all events in Russia and Belarus. But tennis bodies ATP and WTA have said Russian and Belarusian players can play in their tours, but not using national flags. 

A similar stipulation will apply to Russian and Belarusian cyclists. On Monday, the International Olympic Committee recommended banning Russian and Belarusian athletes. On Sunday, swimming’s governing body, FINA, called for an event in Russia to be canceled and said that Russian and Belarusian athletes would have to compete as neutral athletes. Soccer’s governing federation, FIFA, suspended Russia from this year's men's World Cup in Qatar and the women's Euro 2022 tournament. The United States Olympic & Paralympic Committee has demanded that athletes from Russia and Belarus be banned from para sports events, including the Beijing Paralympics, which begin Friday. Some information in this report came from Reuters and Agence France-Presse.