For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 1:30 p.m. A day after many of them spoke with Ukraine’s president, U.S. lawmakers are pledging to provide additional military aid to Kyiv as the government there continues to fight for its survival amid the invasion by Russia. VOA’s Steve Herman has the story. 1:23 p.m.: VOA’s photo gallery chronicles some of the latest developments following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 1:06 p.m.: The International Atomic Energy Agency says management at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhya nuclear plant is under orders from the commander of Russian forces controlling the site. Russian forces seized the nuclear plant last week. #Ukraine informs IAEA that regular staff continue to operate #Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant, but plant management is now under orders from commander of Russian forces controlling site. DG @RafaelMGrossi deeply concerned with latest developments. https://t.co/TDZlLpV10f  12:32 p.m.: U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has pledged Washington's support to Moldova, a small, Western-leaning former Soviet republic that is contending with an influx of refugees from neighboring Ukraine. RFE/RL has the details. 11:29 a.m.: A monitoring group says the number of people detained at anti-war protests across Russia on Sunday has risen to nearly 4,000. Update: Nearly 4,000 people detained in 53 cities at anti-war protests across #Russia, according to @OvdInfo. https://t.co/QjdlHgEKHV  10:40 a.m.: The ICRC Director General commented on the failed civilian evacuations from Mariupol, saying he was “sad” and “disappointed.” Sad and disappointed that the evacuation of 200’000 civilians in harm’s way and desperate for safety has yet again failed today in Mariupol, #Ukraine.Here’s an important reminder on the prerequisites for a safe evacuation of civilians in armed conflict. 👇 https://t.co/E3G2zXSSvf  10:30 a.m.: The U.N. human rights office says it has confirmed 364 civilian deaths and 759 injuries in Ukraine since Russia invaded the country on February 24, although it says the true figures are likely to be considerably higher. 10:00 a.m.: The International Organization for Migration is calling on governments to stop discriminating against third-country nationals trying to flee conflict in Ukraine to neighboring countries. Lisa Schlein reports for VOA from Geneva. 9:45 a.m.: U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken told CNN’s State of the Union show that Washington is investigating reports of Russian attacks on Ukrainian civilians that could constitute war crimes. "We've seen very credible reports of deliberate attacks on civilians…"Secretary of State Antony Blinken tells CNN's @jaketapper the US is investigating and documenting reports of Russian attacks on Ukrainian civilians that could constitute war crimes. #CNNSOTU pic.twitter.com/yEP2NeFw0W  8:56 a.m.: The International Committee of the Red Cross says a second attempt to start evacuating some 200,000 people from the city of Mariupol failed on Sunday. “The failed attempts yesterday and today underscore the absence of a detailed and functioning agreement between the parties to the conflict,” an ICRC statement said. 7:30 a.m.: A monitoring group says more than 1,000 people have been detained in anti-war protests in Russia Sunday. The OVD-Info group said protests were held in some 30 cities across the country 7:00 a.m: The United Nations says more than 1.5 million have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded the country. More than 1.5 million refugees from Ukraine have crossed into neighbouring countries in 10 days — the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.  6:45 a.m: Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan urged his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin to declare a ceasefire in Ukraine during a phone call Sunday. "Erdogan emphasized the importance of taking urgent steps to achieve a ceasefire, open humanitarian corridors and sign a peace agreement,” his office said. 5:41 a.m.: Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi dismissed suggestions his country’s “neutral” stance in the Russia-Ukraine conflict is straining Islamabad’s relationship with the United States or the West at large, in an interview Sunday with VOA. Ayaz Gul has the story. 4:38 p.m.: Ukrainian orphans flee the invasion. Reuters has the story. "They're so young": Residents of Ukrainian orphanage flee to safety https://t.co/MxzGUcb89v pic.twitter.com/6jOJjHU01Y 3:42 a.m.: The BBC reports there's a new cease-fire in the Ukrainian city of Marioupol. 3:23 a.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden said during his State of the Union speech Tuesday night, addressing Russian oligarchs, that they wouldn't have their yachts, their private jets and their luxury apartments long. “We are coming for your ill-begotten gains," he said. Seizing the behemoth boats could prove challenging. Russian billionaires have had decades to shield their money and assets in the West from governments that might try to tax or seize them. 2:30 a.m.: CNN reports that the Ukrainian city of Mariupol has no power or water. The BBC reports that the city is "on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe." 1:40 a.m.: Charities are having trouble getting aid through to Ukraine. ABC News has the story. Charities say they cannot send humanitarian aid into Ukraine through normal channels, with ports blocked and roads made treacherous by bombings. https://t.co/8MxRwEYvws  1 a.m.: People in Taiwan show their support. 12:35 a.m.: She married an American in the U.S. on Saturday. On Monday, she plans to fly to Poland, then head to Ukraine to fight for her home country. The Associated Press has the story. 12:02 a.m.: The Associated Press reports: The already challenging path to bringing home Americans jailed in Russia and Ukraine is likely even more complicated now with a war overwhelming the region and increasingly hostile relations between the United States and the Kremlin. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.