For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EDT: 5:50 a.m.: More than 40 Ukrainian soldiers died when a Russian rocket hit a military barracks in Mykolaiv, Ukraine, The New York Times reports. 5:22 a.m.: Russian military officials said Saturday that they fired a hypersonic missile for the first time in Ukraine to target a weapons storage site in the west of the country, VOA's Jamie Dettmer reports from Warsaw, Poland. "The Kinzhal aviation missile system with hypersonic aeroballistic missiles destroyed a large underground warehouse containing missiles and aviation ammunition in the village of Deliatyn in the Ivano-Frankivsk region," the Russian defense ministry said Saturday. When announcing the development of the Kinzhal hypersonic missile in 2018, Russian President Vladimir Putin described the weapon as "invincible." Russia on Saturday also said its soldiers have entered the center of the besieged port city of Mariupol in southern Ukraine, which has been shelled for days. Russian officials say they are "squeezing the encirclement" of the town. The General Staff of Ukraine’s Armed Forces acknowledged Friday that they have lost access to the Sea of Azov “temporarily” because Russian forces have managed to tighten their grip around Mariupol. Ukrainian officials say Russia has conducted 14 missile strikes and 40 air raids on targets, mainly civilian ones, Ukraine in the past 24 hours. 5:10 a.m.: Ballet dancers from around the world will come together Saturday for a gala to raise funds for Ukraine and send a message of peace, Agence France-Presse reports. The event, to be held at the English National Opera's London Coliseum, aims to raise more than $130,000 for a U.K. charity collective helping war victims. 4:28 a.m.: The New York Times reports that Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte says his nation will not take sides in the matter of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. 4:09 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that a humanitarian corridor for evacuations will open in the Luhansk region of Ukraine on Saturday. 3:25 a.m.: Russia has lost its bid to freeze a FIFA ban that will keep it from soccer's World Cup qualifying playoffs next week, ABC News reports. 2:47 a.m.: The BBC reports that former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown wants Vladimir Putin to face an international tribunal over his actions in Ukraine. 2:01 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that Russian forces have cut off Ukraine's access to the Sea of Azov. Ukraine's defense ministry says the loss is temporary. 1:08 a.m.: U.S. think tank the Center for Global Development says the soaring food and energy prices since Russia invaded Ukraine could send more than 40 million people into "extreme poverty," the BBC reports. 12:36 a.m.: Reuters describes the scene in Mariupol: "Uncollected corpses wrapped in blankets, coats or any available covering lie in courtyards cleared of debris. Those killed are often buried in common graves. "All around are the blackened shells of the sprawling tower blocks typical of Soviet-era dwellings. Twisted metal on balconies, shattered windows, woods, metal and other wreckage scattered between buildings and in streets." 12:04 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Russian forces are blockading Ukraine's largest cities to create a “humanitarian catastrophe” with the aim of persuading Ukrainians to cooperate with them, The Associated Press reports. He says Russians are preventing supplies from reaching surrounded cities in the center and southeast of the country. “This is a totally deliberate tactic,” Zelenskyy said in his nighttime video address to the nation. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.