For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EDT: 3:32 a.m.: The BBC reports that the city of Sumy, Ukraine, could see humanitarian corridors open Friday. The city's about 40 kilometers from the Russian border and has a population of 260,000. 3:01 a.m.: Japan has been on the front lines of a Western-led effort to pressure Russia using diplomatic and economic means, reports VOA's William Gallo. Japan has imposed sanctions on Russian oligarchs, frozen assets of Russian banks, and this week revoked Russia’s most favored nation trade status. It has also sent $100 million in emergency humanitarian aid to Ukraine and smoothed the path to accept Ukrainians fleeing the fighting – a notable move in a country long reluctant to accept overseas refugees.

The moves not only underscore Japan’s broader shift toward a more assertive foreign policy, they also show Tokyo has become bolder in aligning with the West and standing up for principles that underpin the existing U.S.-led international order. 2:38 a.m.: Italy will help rebuild the Mariupol theater destroyed in a Russian strike Wednesday, The Washington Post reported. Italy's Culture Minister Dario Franceschini tweeted Thursday that his government had approved his proposal to rebuild the theater, which was sheltering hundreds of people when it was hit. 2:16 a.m.: The BBC, citing Lviv's mayor, reports that a building next to the city's airport, not the airport itself, was hit. 2:07 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reports that smoke is rising from the airport in Lviv, Ukraine. 2:01 a.m.: The Associated Press reports: As Russian forces pressed their assault on Ukraine, world leaders called anew for an investigation of the Kremlin’s repeat attacks on civilian targets, including airstrikes on schools, hospitals and residential areas that led one official to lament that his city had never seen such “nightmarish, colossal losses.” U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Thursday that American officials were evaluating potential war crimes and that if the intentional targeting of civilians by Russia is confirmed, there will be “massive consequences." 1:06 a.m.: CNN reports multiple explosions in Lviv, Ukraine. 12:45 a.m.: The BBC reports that air raid sirens are sounding in the Rivne, Volyn, Lviv, Ternopil and Ivano-Frankivsk regions of Ukraine. 12:36 a.m.: Reuters reports that Ukrainians in Poland will be allowed to convert their hryvnia bank notes into Polish zlotys. The program is designed to aid refugees who have had trouble exchanging money. 12:04 a.m.: Desperate Ukrainians in Kharkiv are braving Russian rockets to wait in line for nine or 10 hours, hoping to get free food, The Washington Post reports. Meanwhile, thousands are seeking safety underground and setting up camp in the city's subway stations. 12:01 a.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden and China's President Xi Jinping will speak at 9 a.m. Friday. Ukraine is among the issues they'll discuss, The New York Times reports. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.