For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 9:12 a.m.: Praise for the way U.S. agencies secured and shared intelligence on Russia's plans to invade Ukraine are being tempered by growing concern that one of the Kremlin's disinformation campaigns is starting to take hold in the United States and the West. VOA’s Jeff Seldin reports. #Russia pushing disinformation about US-funded #bioweapon labs is an old trick say US intelligence officialsBUT what has them & US lawmakers worried are the number of folks now repeating it"[It's] "got some people fired up"#Russia #Ukraine https://t.co/OAGvJQc9Y7 8:57 a.m.: The UN human rights office said Friday there are “credible reports” that Russia is using cluster munitions in its ongoing invasion of Ukraine.

“We have… received credible reports of several cases of Russian forces using cluster munitions, including in populated areas,” said Liz Throssell, spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in Geneva. “Due to their wide area effects, the use of cluster munitions in populated areas is incompatible with the international humanitarian law principles governing the conduct of hostilities,” she said. 

“Civilian casualties are rising daily, as is general human suffering,” Throssell noted. “We remind the Russian authorities that directing attacks against civilians and civilian objects, as well as so-called area bombardment in towns and villages and other forms of indiscriminate attacks, are prohibited under international law and may amount to war crimes,” she said. 

8:37 a.m.: A shrinking number of well-known companies are still doing business in Russia, even as hundreds have announced plans to curtail ties. The Associated Press reports. 8:10 a.m.: VOA news reporter Celia Mendoza visited the village of Medyka, in Poland, one of the busiest border crossings since the start of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. This is what she saw. No media source currently available 6:58 a.m.: Beijing is controlling messaging on the war in Ukraine, analysts and observers say, as social media companies and traditional Chinese state media outlets have been suppressing voices critical of Russia's invasion. VOA’s Asim Kashgarian has this report. 7:45 a.m.: Kira Yarmysh, the spokeswoman for jailed Russian opposition leader Aleksei Navalny, has been added to Russia's wanted list on unspecified charges. Yarmysh's name appeared on the Interior Ministry's registry of wanted individuals on Friday, according to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. 7: 38 a.m.: Jailed Russian opposition politician Aleksei Navalny has called for protests this weekend against Moscow's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine to combat the "propaganda" machine created by President Vladimir Putin. The Kremlin's most vocal critic urged the anti-war movement in a post on Instagram Friday to put aside their fears of being arrested and take to the streets in what is "definitely not a futile fight." Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has the story.


7:02 a.m.: China's Premier Li Keqiang on Friday called the situation in Ukraine "grave" and offered Beijing's help in playing a "positive role" for peace while continuing to refuse to criticize Russia, according to The Associated Press. China has offered to serve as a facilitator of talks between the sides, although it has little experience in such a role and would not likely be viewed as a neutral party. 6:47 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that foreigners should be allowed to join the war against Ukrainian forces and approved the handover of captured Western missile systems to Moscow-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine. Putin, speaking at a Russian Security Council meeting on Friday, said he supported the idea of allowing foreign individuals to join Russian-backed forces in Ukraine after Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said some 16,000 "volunteers" from the Middle East were ready to come to fight in the war on the Russian side. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reports. 6:25 a.m.: A $13.6 billion emergency package of military and humanitarian aid for besieged Ukraine and its European allies easily won final congressional approval Thursday, hitching a ride on a government-wide spending bill that's five months late but loaded with political prizes for both parties. 6:12 a.m.: South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa says he has been asked to help mediate peace between Russia and Ukraine, after having spoken to his counterpart Vladimir Putin. Some analysts are questioning whether South Africa’s historic ties to Russia could impact its neutrality. VOA’s Linda Givetash reports from Johannesburg that the prospective role of mediator comes after the country abstained from a United Nations vote to reprimand Russia over its invasion of neighboring Ukraine. “It's a very tricky situation, because South Africa, by the way, has ties with both countries,” said Bheki Mngomezulu is a professor of political science at the University of the Western Cape. “But in principle, I think that South Africa did the right thing on this Russian-Ukrainian issue by not siding with either side. South Africa is being looked at as a country that does not believe the use of force, but believes in negotiation,” he added. Earlier this week, Ramaphosa called upon Russia and Ukraine to move toward a mediated cease-fire in a public statement on Twitter. We all call upon Russia and the Ukraine to subject this conflict to mediation and do everything in their power to reach an agreement that will lead to the cessation of hostilities. https://t.co/k4nIzR2Hot pic.twitter.com/qWXI0hWgXX 5:13 a.m.: Agence France-Presse has a map showing major attacks in Ukraine. Map of #Ukraine locating areas where major explosions, strikes and fighting have been reported and under Russian control.Updated latest developments as of March 11, 0800 GMT pic.twitter.com/rnQ5f6Bbp2 4:46 a.m.: ABC News has more on Russia's "volunteer fighters." Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Russia knew of “more than 16,000 applications” from countries in the Middle East, many of them from people who he said helped Russia against the Islamic State group, according to a Kremlin transcript. https://t.co/jWmwRyKTYf 4:10 a.m.: The Associated Press reports that Russian President Vladimir Putin has approved bringing in "volunteer" fighters to join the invasion of Ukraine. BREAKING: Vladimir Putin approves bringing ''volunteer'' fighters from the Middle East and elsewhere to join Russia's war in Ukraine. Moscow said the fighters would include those who fought the Islamic State group, a clear reference to the war in Syria. https://t.co/kgX8CTbYob 3:50 a.m.: A member of Ukraine's parliament shares photos: Baryshivka, Kyiv region11 March10AM Kyiv timeOne 60-apartment building is completely damaged, 4 more buildings with apartments and 10 private houses are partially damaged pic.twitter.com/FlRi80SkOO 3:24 a.m.: Reuters reports Russian-backed separatists have captured Volnovakha, Ukraine. Russian-backed separatists have captured the Ukrainian city of Volnovakha north of the besieged Azov Sea port of Mariupol, the RIA news agency quoted Russia's defence ministry https://t.co/psQVnTpMJO 3:12 a.m.: The International Atomic Energy Agency warned of trouble at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine. The New York Times has the story. The International Atomic Energy Agency warned of “deteriorating and exhausting conditions” for staff at the defunct Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine. It said workers “have not been able to rotate since the day before Russian forces took control.” https://t.co/04PVOITslZ 2:37 a.m.: China's premier speaks about Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Reuters has the story. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said the Ukraine situation was 'disconcerting' and that it is important to support Russia and Ukraine in ceasefire talks https://t.co/USGC43Fovk pic.twitter.com/bluV2gzHtW 2:10 a.m.: A Romanian hotel is sheltering Ukrainian refugees. ABC News has the story. This four-star hotel in Romania has turned its lavish ballroom into a makeshift refugee shelter for some of the thousands crossing the borders from neighboring Ukraine each day. https://t.co/UtIQ8Up4yh pic.twitter.com/GQ4eUGikVt 1:37 a.m.: The U.N. Security Council will hold an emergency meeting Friday on alleged manufacture of biological weapons in Ukraine at the request of Moscow, whose credibility on chemical weapons was questioned during a session on Syria. Russia on Thursday accused the United States of funding research into the development of biological weapons in Ukraine, which has faced an assault by tens of thousands of Russian troops since Feb. 24. Agence France-Presse has the story. 1:10 a.m.: President Joe Biden will announce Friday that, along with the European Union and the Group of Seven countries, the U.S. will move to revoke “most favored nation” trade status for Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. That's according to a source familiar with the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity to preview the announcement. The person said each country would have to follow its own national processes. Stripping most favored nation status from Russia would allow the U.S. and allies to impose tariffs on Russian imports, increasing the isolation of the Russian economy in retaliation for the invasion. The Associated Press has the story. 12:37 a.m.: U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris is in Bucharest on Friday, after her visit Thursday to Warsaw, where she underscored the U.S. commitment to NATO’s eastern flank and supported calls for a probe of Russia's alleged bombing of a Ukrainian hospital. White House Bureau Chief Patsy Widakuswara reports. No media source currently available 12:02 a.m.: Acts of vandalism. Cancel culture. Financial hits. Putin’s war on Ukraine is causing problems for some Russians living in the United States. As VOA’s Veronica Balderas Iglesias reports, many oppose Moscow’s aggression and are speaking out for peace. No media source currently available 12:01 a.m.: CNN reports that on Friday, U.S. President Joe Biden will announce that the U.S. will try to revoke Russia's "most favored nation" status. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Agence France-Presse and Reuters.