For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 7:56 a.m.: Ukraine’s Natural Resources Minister Ruslan Strelets said Tuesday that wildfires have been extinguished in the area of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which is under the control of Russian forces. The fires had raised concern about the possible release of radiation from the plant, but the minister said that radiation levels in the area are within the norm. Ukrainian officials had earlier accused Russian forces of deliberately setting the fires or causing them with artillery shelling, The Associate Press reported. 7:50 a.m.: Ukrainian authorities announced an effort to rescue civilians from Mariupol Tuesday, Agence France-Presse reported. More than 200,000 people are trapped in the city, besieged by Russian forces. "We know that there will not be enough space for everyone," but "we will try to carry out the evacuation until we have gotten all the inhabitants of Mariupol out," vowed Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk in a video address. #UPDATE Ukrainian authorities announced a new bid on Tuesday to rescue civilians from the besieged port city of #Mariupol, under heavy bombardments since Russia's invasion began almost a month ago, as capital Kyiv hunkered down in a curfew ▶️ https://t.co/df0WXGkSiA pic.twitter.com/hOz9L6rF2P 7:46 a.m.: The team of jailed Russian opposition politician Aleksei Navalny has published details about a superyacht that they suspect belongs to President Vladimir Putin. In mid-March, The New York Times cited sources that U.S. authorities had linked the yacht to Putin. A former crew member also confirmed the link. However, the ship's captain, Guy Bennett-Pearce, a British national, has denied that Putin owned or had ever been on the yacht. If the yacht's connection to Putin is proven, it will be impounded, as Putin is currently under sanctions from the European Union over Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine. If the yacht's connection to Putin is proven, it will be impounded, as Putin is currently under sanctions from the European Union over Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine, @CurrentTimeTv and @SvobodaRadio report. https://t.co/KmIqwUQqPn 7:32 a.m.: Ukrainian troops forced Russian forces out of the Kyiv suburb of Makariv after a fierce battle early Tuesday, Ukraine’s Defense Ministry said. The regained territory allowed Ukrainian forces to retake control of a key highway and block Russian troops from surrounding Kyiv from the northwest. Still, the Defense Ministry said Russian forces battling toward Kyiv were able to partially take the other northwest suburbs of Bucha, Hostomel, and Irpin, some of which had been under attack almost since Russia’s military began its invasion a month ago. Residents of Kyiv sheltered at home or underground under a 35-hour curfew imposed by authorities in the capital that runs to Wednesday morning, The Associated Press reported. 7:15 a.m.: On Tuesday, Germany’s parliament honored a survivor of Nazi concentration camps who was killed in Ukraine. Boris Romanchenko, 96, was dedicated to keeping alive the memory of Nazi crimes and was vice president of the International Buchenwald-Dora Committee, The Associated Press reported. Germany's parliament paid tribute to Boris Romanchenko, who survived several Nazi concentration camps, including Buchenwald, during World War II but was killed last week during an attack in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv. He was 96. https://t.co/W9tIdU9zuV 7:03 a.m.: The Kremlin on Tuesday rejected U.S. warnings that it may be preparing to conduct cyber attacks in response to Western sanctions, and said it did not engage in "banditry" according to Reuters. U.S. President Joe Biden on Monday told businesses to do more to protect themselves against possible cyber attacks by Russia, warning there was "evolving intelligence" that Moscow was exploring options on that front. 7:01 a.m.: Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday that Russia would like to see “active and substantive” talks with Ukraine, VOA News reported.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told local television Monday that he is prepared to discuss a range of issues with Putin, including a commitment for Ukraine to not join NATO, as part of efforts to achieve a cease-fire. “It’s a compromise for everyone: for the West, which doesn’t know what to do with us with regard to NATO, for Ukraine, which wants security guarantees, and for Russia, which doesn’t want further NATO expansion,” Zelenskyy said. He said earlier that the Ukrainian people would have to vote in a referendum on any compromises reached with Russia to end the war. 6:58 a.m.: The European Commission is set to delay the publication of proposals on sustainable farming and nature that were expected this week. The impact of the war in Ukraine on food supply has led some countries to question the European Union's environmental push. Russia and Ukraine make up more than 30% of global trade in wheat and more than 50% for sunflower oils, seeds and meals, Reuters reports. 6:46 a.m.: Activists protesting Russia’s invasion of Ukraine have been blocking transport trucks at the Polish-Belarusian border. The backed-up traffic stretched several kilometers at the checkpoint in Kukuryki, Poland for the past several days. Protesters have been blocking trade on and off for two weeks because Belarus has allowed Russian forces to use the country as a staging ground for their invasion of Ukraine. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has the story. 6:35 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Tuesday he has spoken to Pope Francis. Zelenskyy said, “the mediating role of the Holy See in ending human suffering would be appreciated,” in a Twitter post. 6:30 a.m.: Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov, winner of the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize, said he will put his Nobel medal up for auction to raise funds for refugees from Ukraine. In a statement published on Novaya Gazeta’s website, a Russian newspaper, he said, “Novaya Gazeta and I have decided to donate the 2021 Nobel peace prize medal to the Ukrainian Refugee Fund. I ask the auction houses to respond and put up for auction this world-famous award.” In addition to the support for refugees, the statement includes immediate demands calling on Russia to end combat fire, release the bodies of the dead and exchange prisoners. 5:30 a.m.: Japan is protesting Russia’s decision to break off negotiations formally ending nearly eight decades of lingering hostilities from World War Two because of Tokyo’s response over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The two nations have been trying to reach a peace treaty for years to resolve a disputed chain of islands off Japan’s northern island of Hokkaido, known in Russia as the Kurils and the Northern Territories in Japan. The islands were seized by Russia, under the banner of the Soviet Union, at the end of World War Two. 5:10 a.m.: The number of refugees who have fled Ukraine since the Russian invasion began surpassed 3.5 million people, the United Nations’ refugee agency said Tuesday. More than 2.1 million of the refugees have gone to Poland, 543,000 to Romania, 368,000 to Moldova and 318,000 to Hungary. 4:10 a.m.: A Russian court found jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny guilty of large-scale fraud on Tuesday, a move likely to see the time that President Vladimir Putin’s most prominent critic spends in jail extended by years. Navalny’s opposition movement has been labeled “extremist” and shut down, although his supporters continue to express their political stance, including their opposition to Moscow’s military intervention in Ukraine, on social media. Reuters has the story. 3:30 a.m.: Ukrainians with relatives in the United States are finding it challenging to reunite with them in a time of war. Human rights advocates are now pushing the Biden administration to expedite the process to reunite refugees with relatives in the U.S. Tatiana Vorozhko and Aline Barros have the story, narrated by Anna Rice. 3:00 a.m.: In its latest intelligence assessment, Britain’s Defence Ministry said Tuesday that Ukraine’s forces are pushing against Russian forces continuing to “to repulse” Moscow’s efforts to occupy the city of Mariupol. “Several Ukrainian cities continue to suffer heavy Russian air and artillery bombardment with the UN reporting that more than 10 million Ukrainians are now internally displaced as a result of Russia’s invasion,” the report added. Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 22 March 2022Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/H04Aix2uOs pic.twitter.com/TWVZbPaPTh  2:30 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is set to virtually deliver his address to the Japanese parliament on Wednesday to rally international support for his country’s fight against Russian invasion, The Associated Press reported. Japan, unlike in the past, has been acting tough against Russia, in line with other Group of Seven countries, though Tokyo’s steps have triggered Moscow’s retaliation. A compromise could set a bad precedence in East Asia, where China is increasingly making assertive military actions, the AP reports. 1:30 a.m.: Air raid alerts are now activated in various regions of the country, The Kyiv Independent, Ukraine’s English-language media outlet, reported Tuesday . “Sirens have been activated in the Sumy, Mykolaiv, Ternopil, Poltava, Kirovohrad, Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia, Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsk, Zakarpattya, Chernivtsi, Dnipropetrovsk, Rivne, Volyn, Cherkasy, Khmelnytsky, Odesa oblasts,” the outlet said in a Twitter post. 1:10 a.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden warned that false Russian claims about the existence of biological and chemical weapons in Kyiv is an indication that Russian President Vladimir Putin may seek to use these weapons himself. Biden made the remarks during a Business Roundtable event on Monday. “They are also suggesting that Ukraine has biological and chemical weapons in Ukraine. That’s a clear sign he’s [Putin] considering using both of those,” he said. VOA has the story. 12:30 a.m.: Ukrainian and Russian citizens are descending on the Mexican border city of Tijuana to request political asylum in the United States. With Vicente Calderon in Tijuana, VOA’s Mike O’Sullivan reports that many Ukrainians are able to cross the border, while Russian citizens are having a harder time. No media source currently available 12:10 a.m.: As U.S. and Europe restrict Russia’s ability to sell oil and gas, Moscow faces challenges in shipping its energy products to other markets such as China and India. VOA’s Mandarin Service Jie Xi spoke to analysts studying the region and has this story.