For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 8:51 a.m.: International Women's Day, marked each year on March 8, is a global day to celebrate women, but many fleeing Ukraine feel only the stress of finding a new life for their children as husbands, brothers, and fathers stay behind to defend their country from Russia's invasion. As The Associated Press reports, Ukrainian women refugees find themselves in “some kind of terrible dream.” 8:32 a.m.:  U.S. First Lady Jill Biden released a statement Tuesday to mark International Women's Day, making special mention of women caught in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. "To our sisters from Ukraine who are fighting to keep their country free and their families alive: We stand with you in solidarity," she said. "To our sisters in Russia who are protesting and speaking out against the invasion at great personal risk: We see your courage," Biden added. On this International Women’s Day, we honor women throughout the world who courageously use their voice, no matter the cost. pic.twitter.com/omdwxvFOY1 8:15 a.m.: A growing number of Western businesses are either halting operations in Russia or exiting altogether over that country’s military incursion of neighboring Ukraine, reports VOA News. 7:43 a.m.: World leaders are feverishly trying to extinguish the conflict in Ukraine, as warring delegations prepare to meet for another round of talks. But in Washington, all eyes are on the gas pump as Russian sanctions send prices to near-record highs. VOA’s Anita Powell reports from the White House. No media source currently available 7:31 a.m.: Shell announced Tuesday its intent to withdraw from all Russian oil and gas operations. As an immediate first step, Shell is halting spot purchases of Russian crude oil, shutting service stations, and ending aviation fuel and lubricant operations in Russia, the company said in a tweet. Shell announces intent to withdraw from all Russian oil & gas, aligned with new government guidance.As an immediate first step, we will stop all spot purchases of Russian crude oil, shut service stations, aviation fuels & lubricants operations in Russia. Shell Chief Executive Officer, Ben van Beurden, said in a company statement published online March 8, "We are acutely aware that our decision last week to purchase a cargo of Russian crude oil to be refined into products like petrol and diesel – despite being made with security of supplies at the forefront of our thinking – was not the right one and we are sorry." He added, "As we have already said, we will commit profits from the limited, remaining amounts of Russian oil we will process to a dedicated fund. We will work with aid partners and humanitarian agencies over the coming days and weeks to determine where the monies from this fund are best placed to alleviate the terrible consequences that this war is having on the people of Ukraine." 7:12 a.m. : In an article titled "Putin's Iron Fist vs. Zelensky's Moral Clarity," The Harvard Gazette interviewed faculty historian Nancy Koehn, author of "Forged in Crisis: The Power of Courageous Leadership in Turbulent Times." She compares the two wartime leaders and analyzes the broader messages they are sending to the world. 7:00 a..m.: The U.N. refugee agency said Tuesday more than 2 million people have fled Ukraine since Russia launched its invasion on February 24. More than half have gone to Poland. 6:30 a.m.: ​U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Estonia on Tuesday, the latest stop to demonstrate support for NATO allies in eastern Europe and discuss the response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Blinken said the United States and NATO “are prepared to meet any threat from any direction it comes.” He called on Russia to allow humanitarian access for civilians in Ukraine, and said Ukraine’s allies will do “everything we can” to ensure Ukrainians have what they need to defend themselves. “This is President Putin’s war to subjugate a sovereign, democratic country. And until he ends it, the world will hold him accountable,” Blinken said. Good to meet in Tallinn today with Estonian Foreign Minister @eliimets. We reiterated our call on the Kremlin to end its illegal and unprovoked war in Ukraine and reviewed our combined efforts to provide further support for the Ukrainian people. pic.twitter.com/FcM4g8wTbP     6:13 a.m.: Jodep Borrell, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, said Tuesday the EU should use a “broader toolbox” to curb the spread of disinformation to protect democracies from foreign interference, citing Russian propaganda and state-owned media such as Russia Today. “I will propose a new mechanism that will allow us to sanction those malign disinformation actors,” Borrell said. We need protect our democracies from foreign interference and attempts to manipulate.I will propose a new horizontal regime that will allow us to sanction malign disinformation actors.This will be part of a broader toolbox that will enhance our capacity to deter and to act. pic.twitter.com/Kc30DxSbwo  5:30 a.m.: As much of the world celebrates International Women’s Day on Tuesday, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian women are displaced from their homes, fleeing a Russian inspired war in their homeland. A decree by Ukraine’s government that prohibits men 18 to 60 years of age from leaving the country means that most of those fleeing Ukraine are women and children. On this #WomensDay my heart goes out to all Ukrainian women. Standing for freedom.Fighting on the frontline.Protecting their loved ones. The European Union is with you. pic.twitter.com/q6n1X4oMLi The number of people fleeing Ukraine since the war began last week has reached 2 million Tuesday, according to the U.N. refugee agency, in what they called Europe’s fastest-growing refugee crisis since World War II. Most refugees are seeking safety in Poland — more than 1 million had entered the country as of Monday — while some 180,000 had crossed Ukraine's border into Hungary. Ukraine and Russia agreed to allow civilian evacuations from some areas on Tuesday.  4:47 a.m.: Filippo Grandi, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees, said the number of refugees who have left Ukraine following Russia’s invasion has reached two million on Tuesday. Today the outflow of refugees from Ukraine reaches two million people. Two million.  4:00 a.m.: The Ukrainian ministry of foreign affairs called on Russia Tuesday to uphold ceasefire during the evacuation of Sumy. A humanitarian corridor to evacuate civilians, including foreign students, from Sumy to Poltava has been agreed today. We call on Russia to uphold its ceasefire commitment, to refrain from activities that endanger the lives of people and to allow the delivery of humanitarian aid. pic.twitter.com/W6ArLPKtBq  3:30 a.m. Ukraine’s government said Tuesday it will offer financial assistance to citizens in places where there is heavy fighting. The State Service of Special Communications and Information Protection of Ukraine said 6,500 Ukrainian Hryvnia can be paid to “hired employees, for whom single social contribution is paid, as well as to individual entrepreneurs of all groups.” Ukrainian citizens will be able to get financial assistance of 6500 UAH from the state in the regions with the heaviest fightings.The assistance can be provided to hired employees, for whom single social contribution is paid, as well as to individual entrepreneurs of all groups.  3:00 a.m.: VOA’s national security correspondent Jeff Seldin reports on Russia’s efforts to sway the opinions of people. Just like its military advance, the Kremlin’s efforts to dominate the information environment have not gone according to plan, although experts say Moscow still has plenty of tricks up its sleeve. 2:40 a.m.: Civilians are set to start leaving the Ukrainian city of Sumy on Tuesday under an agreement with Russia on the establishment of a “humanitarian corridor,” Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said, Reuters reports. “It has been agreed that the first convoy will start at 10 a.m. (0800 GMT) from the city of Sumy. The convoy will be followed by the local population in personal vehicles,” Vereshchuk said in a televised statement. Брифінг Ірини Верещук щодо відкриття гуманітарного коридору для міста Суми.https://t.co/KR5R4tjcdU  2:18 a.m.: In a new report released Tuesday, the advocacy group Human Rights Watch said Russian forces “violated their obligations under international humanitarian law not to conduct indiscriminate or disproportionate attacks that harm civilians.” Ukraine: Russian Assault Kills Fleeing Civilians https://t.co/6QnD37fLjV  1:38 a.m.: A groundbreaking law enabling New Zealand to freeze the assets of those associated with Russia is expected to pass this week. The new Russia Sanctions Bill — in response to its invasion of Ukraine — would allow authorities to target individuals, services, companies and assets. For VOA, Phil Mercer reports from Sydney. Additionally, Australia’s Ministry for Foreign Affairs issued a statement Tuesday announcing further sanctions on Russia’s military commanders and those it says are responsible for state propaganda and disseminating disinformation. The measure targets 10 people Australia says are “of strategic interest to Russia” and have been “driving and disseminating false narratives about the “de-Nazification” of Ukraine, making erroneous allegations of genocide against ethnic Russians in eastern Ukraine, and promoting the recognition of the so-called Donetsk People’s Republic and Luhansk People’s Republic as independent,” the ministry said in the statement. Today Australia imposed new sanctions on key military figures, the Russian Armed Forces & those responsible for driving and disseminating Russian propaganda. This follows last week’s listing of key banks, to prevent finance for Putin’s unjustified war. https://t.co/pB2E9kqGOv  12:30 a.m.: The World Bank approved $723 million in financial support for Ukraine. The package voted on by the bank’s board of executive directors includes $489 million in loans and guarantees, $134 million in grant financing and $100 million in parallel financing. The money is slated to help the Ukrainian government pay wages to hospital workers, pensions for the elderly and fund social programs for people at risk, the bank said in a statement. The bank said it is working to create an additional $3 billion support package for Ukraine and will help support neighboring countries taking in refugees. “The World Bank Group is taking quick action to support Ukraine and its people in the face of the violence and extreme disruption caused by the Russian invasion,” said World Bank President David Malpass in a statement. “The World Bank Group stands with the people of Ukraine and the region. This is the first of many steps we are taking to help address the far-reaching human and economic impacts of this crisis.” .@WorldBank Group mobilizes +$700m in emergency financing to support Ukraine. The funds will help ensure critical services to people continue despite the Russian invasion. https://t.co/nhifkL6TVG pic.twitter.com/oxCCqCQSdN 12:00 a.m.: The U.S. is refuting Russian claims that its military is “preventing war” in Ukraine instead of causing it. “This is a flat out lie,” U.S. State Department spokesperson Ned Price tweeted. “Russia’s military operation is instigating a war in Ukraine. Ukraine does not want a war. #StopTheLies.” Russia has tried to justify its invasion with various claims including saying it is protecting ethnic Russians in the country and is trying to “de-nazify” the country. Price referred to a statement by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov who said: “The goal of Russia's special military operation is to stop any war that could take place on Ukrainian territory or that could start from there.” This is a flat out lie. Russia’s special military operation is instigating a war in Ukraine. Ukraine does not want a war. #StopTheLies pic.twitter.com/h31pWIJB7S  Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and ​Reuters.