For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 5:17 a.m.: The International Rescue Committee says that Ukraine represents "the fastest displacement crisis we’ve seen since the second World War." Elsewhere, CNN reported that UNICEF says that one in every two Ukrainian children has been displaced since the invasion began. 4:34 a.m.: Ukraine's Minister of Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba, responding to Russia's demand to be paid for oil and gas in rubles, tweeted, "If any EU country bows to Putin’s humiliating demands to pay for oil and gas in rubles, it will be like helping Ukraine with one hand and helping Russians kill Ukrainians with the other. I urge relevant countries to make a wise and responsible choice." 4 a.m.: The U.S. Embassy Kyiv says that Ukraine has created a war crimes evidence database "to record the crimes of Russian forces against Ukraine." 3:40 a.m.: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, speaking before Thursday's meetings in Brussels, said, "President Putin has made a big mistake, and that is to launch a war -- to wage war -- against an independent, sovereign nation. He has underestimated the strength of the Ukrainian people, the bravery of the Ukrainian people and their armed forces, and therefore they're also meeting much more resistance than they expected." 3:08 a.m.: The mayor of the Ukrainian city of Melitopol says Russian forces are committing atrocities, The Washington Post reported. He said troops are using civilians as "“hostages and a living shield." 2:38 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that Ukraine' 2022 sunflower seed harvest is likely to plunge 42% due to the Russian invasion. 1:34 a.m.: Kyiv's mayor says at least 264 civilians have died in the Russian invasion of Ukraine, CNN reported. 12:45 a.m.: CNN, citing the mayor of Chernihiv, says the Ukrainian city is overwhelmed with dead and the local cemetery can no longer accommodate all the war victims. "The city cemetery cannot handle all the dead, so we are keeping people in morgues and refrigerators longer than normal," Mayor Vladyslav Atroshenko said. "We are burying people in the old cemeteries that haven't been used in a while." 12:04 a.m.: Al Jazeera, citing a senior U.S. defense official, reported that Russian forces appear to be digging in and setting up defensive positions outside Kyiv. 12:01 a.m.: The New York Times reported that some people in Russia are now having trouble accessing the Google News app and website. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.