For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 3:27 a.m.: In its latest intelligence report Monday, the British Ministry of Defence said Russia is “probably targeting” Ukraine’s communication infrastructure in its attempt to cut access to reliable news sources.   2:56 a.m.: A Russian independent media project OVD-Info said about 5,000 people have been detained for demonstrating and participating in the anti-war protests in Russia on Sunday. The media project advocates for human rights and has been monitoring the massive arrests of people.  Protesters were beaten with batons by Russian police Sunday in Yekaterinburg, Russia.  2:44 a.m.: Russian forces bombarded cities in northern and southern Ukraine Monday, as Ukrainian officials warned Russia may be moving closer to storming Kyiv and Russia’s military announced the latest in yet-unfulfilled plans to establish humanitarian corridors for civilians caught amid its invasion. VOA’s Steve Herman has the story.  2:07 a.m.: The price of oil jumped more than $10 a barrel and shares were sharply lower Monday as the conflict in Ukraine deepened amid mounting calls for harsher sanctions against Russia. Brent crude, the international standard, hit $139.13 per barrel before falling back. It was trading up $10.56 at $128.67 a barrel. U.S. futures fell, with the contract for the benchmark S&P 500 down 1.6% and that for the Dow industrials falling 1.3%.  The Associated Press has the story.  1:51 a.m.: Long-term partners and members of Ukraine’s Civilian Defense Unit, Lesia Ivashchenko and Valerii Filimonov, got married at a checkpoint in Kyiv Sunday, on the 11th day of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.  1:15 a.m.: Israel is becoming involved in efforts to mediate between Ukraine and Russia amid Moscow’s war on Ukraine, now in its second week. For VOA, Linda Gradstein reports from Jerusalem on communications between Russia and Israel, including a visit to Moscow by Israel’s prime minister.  12:50 a.m.: Ukraine’s General Staff of the Armed Forces released a status update at 7 a.m. local time on Monday, the 12th day of the Russian invasion. In it, they said Russia continues to carry out rocket bomb and artillery strikes against Ukrainian targets. They also said Russians continue to carry out airstrikes originating from airfields in Belarus. The release said Russia is violating international humanitarian law by shelling civilians, green corridors and taking women and children hostage. Ukraine also accused Russia of creating a humanitarian crisis in occupied areas including the city of Irpin where, they said, citizens have been without electricity, water and heat for more than three days.  12:05 a.m.: Approximately 700 Indian students who had been studying in northeastern Ukraine are awaiting evacuation which has been promised by the Embassy of India. The students are in the city of Sumy located about 30 miles from the Russian border. The Indian government has launched what it calls “Operation Ganga” to transport Indian nationals out of the country. According to a report by The Indian Express on March 7, the students were told to be prepared for evacuation at any minute. The Express said Operation Ganga had arranged 76 flights to transport 15,920 Indian nationals, including 13 flights in the past 24 hours. For the latest on the evacuation efforts of Indian students from Ukraine, VOA’s Anjana Pasricha has more from New Delhi:  Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.