For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 10:53 a.m.: When bombs started falling on Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, last month, Tatyana Zhuravliova had a horrible déjà vu: the 83-year-old Ukrainian Jew felt the same panic she suffered as a little girl when the Nazis were flying air attacks on her hometown of Odesa. Now, in an unexpected twist of history, some of the 10,000 Holocaust survivors who had been living in Ukraine have been taken to safety in Germany, The Associated Press reported Monday. 10:27 a.m.: An actor, a charity worker, an activist, and a journalist – each had their own compelling reasons to get out of Russia as soon as possible after it invaded Ukraine. They spoke to Current Time, a co-production of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and VOA. 10:13 a.m. : Two Ukrainian journalists and three foreign journalists have been killed in the course of their work in Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion on 24 February, Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said on Monday. In a statement, it called on the Russian and Ukrainian authorities to guarantee the safety of media personnel in Ukraine. “Attacking journalists is a war crime,” it said.  #Ukraine: five journalists reporting on the war have been killed since the start of the Russian invasion. RSF condemns these killings, which constitute war crimes, and calls all parties to guarantee the safety of journalists. https://t.co/AtgOgKhDCj  10:05 a.m.: The mayor of Irpin, near Kyiv, said on Monday Ukrainian forces had seized back full control of the town which has been one of the main hotspots of fighting with Russian troops near the capital. "We have good news today - Irpin has been liberated," Mayor Oleksandr Markushyn said in a video post on Telegram. "We understand that there will be more attacks on our town and we will defend it courageously." The information could not immediately be verified by Reuters. 9:56 a.m. : The U.N. World Health Organization reported via Twitter that more Ukrainian donors have been giving blood at the Kyiv City Blood Bank since the Russian invasion began. Health workers at Kyiv City Blood Bank, #Ukraine, said that more people have been donating blood since February.“It’s good to donate blood and be useful for society at the same time,” said Dmyto, 38. pic.twitter.com/iDWNnlSAJf 9:42 a.m.: Russian shares have slumped as its stock market resumed trading of all companies after a monthlong halt following the invasion of Ukraine, The Associated Press reported Monday. The benchmark MOEX index slid 2.2% Monday after the Moscow Exchange reopened for all of its several hundred listed companies, but with restrictions still in place to limit volatility. Prices whipsawed last week when the exchange tentatively reopened for two days of limited trading. 9:27 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered the Russian central bank, the government, and Gazprom to present proposals by March 31 for collecting gas payments in rubles from “unfriendly countries,” including all European Union states. Russia will take decisions in due course should European countries refuse to pay in the Russian currency, the Kremlin said on Monday. But the Group of Seven major economies have already agreed to reject the demand, the German energy minister said. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has the story. 9:13 a.m. : Photos of a Ukrainian cat that were shared on social media have helped raise funds to support animals affected by the war in Ukraine, The Kyiv Independent reported Monday. Chill Ukrainian cat Stepan has raised $10,000 on Instagram to support animals suffering from Russia's war in Ukraine.According to Stepan's Instagram account, the money will go to several Ukrainian charities supporting animals.Photo: Instagram/loveyoustepan pic.twitter.com/DGTQVneH9U 9:10 a.m.: Workers at a shelter in Dnipro that is home to hundreds of vulnerable animals are vowing to stay on, even as other animal-rescue centers close down amid violence and uncertainty in eastern Ukraine. Maryna Bolokhovets said that, with war raging to the north, south, and east of her rescue center, she and her volunteers are overwhelmed with animals in need of a safe home. Amos Chapple has this story for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. 9:09 a.m.: Wealthy Russians are pouring money into real estate in Turkey and the United Arab Emirates, seeking a financial haven in the wake of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine and Western sanctions, according to many property companies, Reuters reports. "We sell seven to eight units to Russians every day," said Gul Gul, co-founder of the Golden Sign real estate company in Istanbul. "They buy in cash, they open bank accounts in Turkey or they bring gold." In Dubai, Thiago Caldas, CEO of the Modern Living property firm, has hired three Russian-speaking agents to meet Russian interest, which he says has leapt tenfold. 9:02 a.m.: Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Monday called on countries around the world to rename the addresses where Russian embassies and consulates are located. It suggested, in a tweet, that the streets could be renamed “Ukraine Street.” #Ukraine calls the world to change the address of Russian embassies and consulates to ‘Ukraine Street’The campaign website https://t.co/9epReU4328 contains links to petitions to rename the streets with the 🇷🇺 embassies and consulates in 53 cities in 34countries worldwide. pic.twitter.com/vHy7qe0CZv 9:01 a.m.: Russia's Novaya Gazeta newspaper, whose editor Dmitry Muratov was a co-winner of last year's Nobel Peace Prize, said on Monday it was suspending its online and print activities until the end of Russia's "special operation" in Ukraine. The investigative paper said it had received another warning from state communications regulator Roskomnadzor on Monday about its reporting, prompting it to pause operations. In a separate message to readers, Muratov and his reporters said the decision to halt their activities had been difficult but necessary. "There is no other choice," the note said. "For us, and I know, for you, it's an awful and difficult decision." 8:47 a.m.: Ukraine’s First Lady Olena Zelenska has released a video thanking the many countries that have helped Ukraine’s people, in the wake of Russia’s invasion. The video, shared on Twitter Monday by Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, features statements by several first ladies who have publicly expressed support for Ukraine in recent weeks. Olena Zelenska, 🇺🇦 First Lady: The war in #Ukraine is a war on the doorstep of your home. Stay open, stay responsive. Stay on the side of peace and humanity. Then the victory of Ukraine will be your victory! pic.twitter.com/kKsCii6NSV 8:33 a.m.: Wars attract all sorts and every sort, from the charitable and kindly to criminals and opportunists; oddballs to philanthropists; pacifists to war junkies. And they can all be encountered in the bedraggled, improvised camp just across from Ukraine that sometimes seems a cross between a chaotic local craft fair and the kind of circus that springs up around rock music festivals. VOA’s Jamie Dettmer shares these stories from the Poland-Ukraine border. 8:21 a.m.: 300 pairs of worn shoes are lined up next to the Danube river in Hungary’s capital Budapest, commemorating the victims of a Russian attack on civilians sheltering in a theater in Ukraine’s southern city of Mariupol. Ukraine’s Parliament posted a photo on Twitter of the Hungarian protest, noting that the shoes were placed near a bronze statue that honors the memory of Hungarian Jews killed in World War II. In #Budapest, people commemorated the victims in #Mariupol, where Russia committed an atrocity that #Europe had not known since World War II.The demonstration took place in Budapest near the "Shoes on the Danube Bank" memorial, which honors the memory of Hungarian Jews. pic.twitter.com/XK94QsqfBW 8:15 a.m.: The European Commission called on EU governments on Monday to end national programs to sell citizenship to investors, also known as golden passports schemes, and urged them to suspend the sale of visas to Russians and Belarusians, Reuters reported. "Some Russian or Belarusian nationals who are subject to sanctions or are significantly supporting the war in Ukraine might have acquired EU citizenship or privileged access to the EU, including to travel freely in the Schengen area, under these schemes," the European Commission said on Monday.

8:13 a.m.: Slovakia has awarded Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy one of the country’s top awards, the State Award of Alexander Dubcek symbolizing "freedom and hope." Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Geger announced late on March 27 that Zelenskyy was being honored with the award, named in honor of the Slovak reformer. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has the story. 8:02 a.m.: A local councilor in southern Russia who criticized Moscow's invasion of Ukraine as amounting to a war crime has said she felt an obligation to speak up and was prepared for the consequences. Russian officials have denied committing war crimes and say their forces in Ukraine have not targeted civilians. The Semiluksky district council in Voronezh, about 500 kms (310 miles) south of Moscow, has asked law enforcement to investigate Nina Belyayeva for extremism after she made the comments at a meeting on March 22. "I'm not afraid," Belyayeva, a lawyer and devout Christian told Reuters in an interview. "The very least that I wanted to do was to say that I am against what’s going on." Public criticism of the war carries risks. Thousands of Russians who took part in protests have been detained over the past month, and a state TV producer who interrupted a live news bulletin holding up an anti-war sign has been fined. 7:46 a.m.: Since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, all public hospitals in the country have been operating under martial law and have been working 24/7. Some medical workers have moved their families into the hospital with them, while volunteers have arrived to help. Harutyun Mansuryan reports for Current Time, a co-production of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and VOA. 7:23 a.m.: A Harvard University behavioral scientist has joined hands with a Norwegian computer expert in what has become a global campaign to try to reach millions of Russians, one by one, with persuasive facts about their country’s invasion of Ukraine, The Harvard Gazette reported. “We try to understand how you can talk to people who dramatically disagree with your view of the world in a way that doesn't blow up into a screaming match—and actually leads to persuasion and ongoing dialogue,” says Julia Minson, associate professor of public policy at Harvard’s Kennedy School. 7:18 a.m.: Individuals who display the letter "Z" in Germany to symbolize support for Russia's war in Ukraine could be liable to prosecution, an Interior Ministry spokesperson said on Monday. The letter Z has been used as a marking on Russian military vehicles taking part in the conflict and has been adopted by Russians supporting the war, with it being prominent on flags and at pro-Kremlin rallies, Reuters reported. "The Russian war of aggression on the Ukraine is a criminal act, and whoever publicly approves of this war of aggression can also make himself liable to prosecution," the Interior Ministry spokesperson told a regular government news conference. 7:10 a.m.: A “Concert for Peace” was held in Paris over the weekend, with proceeds going to victims of the war in Ukraine, Agence France-Presse reports. VIDEO: Ukrainian soprano Liudmyla Monastyrska was among the performers who took part in Paris Opera's "Concert for Peace" on Sunday -- a benefit concert held in the Palais Garnier to raise money for the victims of the war in Ukraine pic.twitter.com/JN9sZPiXEL 7:08 a.m.: The Kremlin said that peace talks between Russia and Ukraine may get under way in Turkey on Tuesday and it was important that they would take place face-to-face, after what it described as a lack of major progress in negotiations so far, Reuters reported. Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan agreed in a telephone call on Sunday for Istanbul to host the talks. Turkey said the talks could begin as early as Monday, but Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said that was unlikely as the negotiators would only be arriving in Turkey on Monday. "While we cannot and will not speak about progress at the talks, the fact that they (are) continuing to take place in person is important, of course," Peskov told reporters on a conference call. 7:06 a.m.: Ukraine’s Economy Minister says that Ukraine has lost over $560 billion since Russia invaded the country, The Kyiv Independent reported Monday. ⚡️ Ukraine loses over $560 billion from Russian invasion. According to Economy Minister Yulia Svyrydenko, Ukraine has already lost $564.9 billion because of Russia’s full-scale invasion, including $119 billion in destroyed infrastructure. 7:01 a.m.: The World Food Program warns food is getting harder to find in Ukraine as the war grinds on, forcing people to resort to extreme measures. Ukraine, a country of 44 million people, is running out of food. The World Food Program estimates 45% of the country’s people are worried about finding enough to eat. WFP calls the country’s food supply chain broken. VOA’s Lisa Schlein reports. 6:52 a.m.: With its aspirations for a quick victory dashed by a stiff Ukrainian resistance, Russia has increasingly focused on grinding down Ukraine’s military in the east, The Associated Press reported Monday. If Russia succeeds in encircling and destroying Ukrainian forces in the Donbas region, it could try to dictate its terms to Kyiv and, possibly, attempt to split the country in two. The chief of Ukrainian military intelligence, Kyrylo Budanov, said Sunday the change of focus could reflect Putin’s hope to break Ukraine in two, like North and South Korea. “He can’t swallow the entire country,” Budanov said, adding that Russia appears to be trying “to pull the occupied territories into a single quasi-state structure and pit it against independent Ukraine.” 6:49 a.m.: The Kremlin said on Monday that U.S. President Joe Biden's remark that Vladimir Putin could not remain in power was a cause for alarm, Reuters reported. Asked about Biden's comment, which was given little coverage on Russian state television, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: "This is a statement that is certainly alarming." The White House tried to clarify Biden's remarks and the president on Sunday said he had not been calling for regime change. 6:30 a.m.: German broadcaster Deutsche Welle has been added to Russia’s “foreign agents” list of media organizations, a label that requires outlets to publish a disclaimer, Reuters reported. The Russian state regulator blocked the broadcaster in early March. It has also voted in a new law imposing 15-year prison term for spreading “false news” on Russian military operations. Deutsche Welle joins a list of other media organizations with such designation, including Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty, parts of the Voice of America and the BBC among others. 6:00 a.m.: Russian ambassador to Poland said Monday the 45 Russian diplomats that have been identified as working in Poland as spies have now left the country, Reuters reported, citing Russia’s Tass News Agency. Earlier, Russia said it would take retaliatory measures and expel Polish diplomats “on the principle of reciprocity.” VOA has this story. 5:30 a.m.: Speaking to Serbian media outlets, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday that a meeting between President Vladimir Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskiyy to exchange views on the conflict right now would be counterproductive, according to Reuters. 4:40 a.m.: Dutch brewer Heineken announced on Monday it was pulling out of Russia, becoming the latest Western firm to exit the country in the wake of Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine. The beer company had already halted the sale and production of its Heineken brand in Russia, as well as suspended new investments and exports to the country earlier this month, Agence France-Presse reported. 3:30 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his country’s “sovereignty and territorial integrity” are a priority as Ukraine and Russia head into a new round of peace talks. “We are looking for peace, really, without delay,” Zelenskyy said in a video address late Sunday. “There is an opportunity and a need for a face-to-face meeting in Turkey. This is not bad. Let’s see the outcome.” Earlier Sunday, in call with Russian journalists, Zelenskyy said Ukraine was open to adopting neutral status as part of a peace deal, if it came with third-party guarantees and was put to a referendum. Reuters quotes an aide to Zelenskyy as saying Turkey is among countries that could be a guarantor for Ukraine on security issues. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan spoke by phone Sunday with Russian President Vladimir Putin, with Erdogan’s office saying he stressed the need for a cease-fire and more humanitarian aid in the region. 2:00 a.m.: A fifth week of unprovoked war waged by Russia on neighboring Ukraine. More than 10 million Ukrainians are now displaced both in and outside the country. Russian shelling continues throughout Ukraine despite the Kremlin announcing new battleplans focused on the eastern region. On a trip to Europe, President Joe Biden says Russian President Vladimir Putin “cannot remain in power” but later U.S. officials clarify that Washington is not seeking regime change. VOA’s Arash Arabasadi has this story. No media source currently available 1:40 a.m.: In its battleground intelligence report, the U.K. defense ministry said Monday that there has been “no significant change to Russian Forces dispositions in occupied Ukraine,” in the last 24 hours. “Ongoing logistical shortages have been compounded by a continued lack of momentum and morale amongst the Russian military, and aggressive fighting by the Ukrainians,” the statement said, adding that “Russia has gained most ground in the south in the vicinity of Mariupol where heavy fighting continues as Russia attempts to capture the port.” 12: 20 a.m.: Actress and Ukraine native Mila Kunis made a plea to support Ukrainians during the Academy Awards telecast. “Recent global events have left many of us feeling gutted,” Kunis said. “Yet, when you witness the strength and dignity of those facing such devastation, it’s impossible to not be moved by their resilience. One cannot help but be in awe of those who find [the] strength to keep fighting through unimaginable darkness.” Kunis and her husband Ashton Kutcher have raised more than $35 million to support humanitarian efforts in the region. They also participated in a video call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to discuss the conflict. During the show other presenters made reference to the war including co-host Amy Schumer who calledthe conflict a “genocide.”