For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 8:21 a.m.: The United Nations says there is growing evidence Russian has committed war crimes in Ukraine, Reuters reports. The U.N. human rights office points to signs of indiscriminate shelling and summary executions. "Russian armed forces have indiscriminately shelled and bombed populated areas, killing civilians and wrecking hospitals, schools and other civilian infrastructure, actions that may amount to war crimes," the office of U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) Michelle Bachelet said. 7:55 a.m.: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says the U.K. will reopen its embassy in Kyiv next week according to The Associated Press. Johnson made the announcement while visiting India on Friday. Diplomats from other European nations started returning to Ukraine’s capital after Russian troops withdrew from the Kyiv region to focus on eastern Ukraine. 7:30 a.m.: Russia is prepared to stop firing to allow fighters at the Azovstal steel works in Ukraine's port city of Mariupol to leave the plant, along with any civilians that are still there, RIA cited the defense ministry as saying on Friday. The ministry said claims by Ukraine and some western countries that Russia was preventing civilians from leaving the city were "groundless", the TASS news agency reported, according to Reuters.

7:21 a.m.: India and Britain have urged Russia to declare an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced steps to help move New Delhi away from its dependence on Russia by expanding economic and defense ties. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi told reporters their meeting Friday focused on the situation in Ukraine, underscoring the importance of diplomacy and dialogue. While India has condemned the killings of civilians in Ukraine, it has so far not criticized Russian President Vladimir Putin, The Associated Press reported.

7:13 a.m.: Ukraine's Defense Ministry denounced plans announced by Russia on Friday to take full control of Donbas and southern Ukraine as “imperialism,” Reuters reported "They stopped hiding it," the ministry said on Twitter. It said Russia had "acknowledged that the goal of the 'second phase' of the war is not victory over the mythical Nazis, but simply the occupation of eastern and southern Ukraine. Imperialism as it is." 6:29 a.m.: Russia plans to take full control of Donbas and southern Ukraine during the second phase of what it calls its special military operation, the deputy commander of Russia's central military district said on Friday, Russian news agencies reported. The statement from Rustam Minnekayev, the deputy commander, is one of the most detailed about Moscow's latest ambitions in Ukraine and suggests Russia does not plan to wind down its offensive there anytime soon, Reuters reported.

6:21 a.m.: Ukrainians continue to resist in the besieged city of Mariupol, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said, contradicting Russia's claim that it had "liberated" the strategic Sea of Azov port after almost two months of intense shelling. Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday claimed that Russian forces had "liberated" Mariupol and stopped short of ordering the storming of the Azovstal steel plant complex, where a few thousand Ukrainian soldiers are holed up together with thousands more civilians. But Zelenskyy said on Friday that the fighting continued. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this report.

6:13 a.m.: Plans for Pope Francis to meet in June with Russian Orthodox Patriarch Kirill, who has backed Russia's war in Ukraine, have been suspended, the pope has told an Argentine newspaper according to Reuters. Francis told La Nacion in an interview that he regretted that the plan had to be "suspended" because Vatican diplomats advised that such a meeting "could lend itself to much confusion at this moment".

6:09 a.m.: The Russian embassy in the Czech capital has a new address after Prague authorities renamed a section of the street where it is located, The Associated Press reported. Friday’s official ceremony comes after the decision to change the name to “Ukrainian Heroes” was approved by the City Hall at the request of the Prague 6 district where the embassy is located. Prague mayor Zdenek Hrib unveiled the new street sign in the presence of Ukraine’s ambassador. Hrib previously said the move honors the “unbelievable bravery of Ukrainian fighters.”

6:02 a.m.: As Russian forces launch an all-out assault in eastern Ukraine, the West is scrambling to supply Kyiv with more advanced and heavier weapons. Ukraine has defied the odds on the battlefield and Russian forces have retreated from northern Ukraine. But experts say the extent of Western military assistance is likely to define the next, and potentially defining, phase of the war. To find out more, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty spoke with Garvan Walshe, a former security adviser to Britain’s Conservative Party and the CEO of the consultancy group Article7.

5:48 a.m.: NATO must avoid a direct military confrontation with Russia that could lead to a third world war, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said in an interview with Der Spiegel when asked about Germany's failure to deliver heavy weapons to Ukraine. Scholz is facing growing criticism at home and abroad for his government's apparent reluctance to deliver heavy battlefield weapons, such as tanks and howitzers, to Ukraine to help it fend off Russian attacks, even as other Western allies step up shipments, Reuters reported. 5:45 a.m.: The BBC reports that the mayor of Mariupol called for the "full evacuation" of the city Friday. Russian President Vladimir Putin has claimed victory in the city; the mayor says about 100,000 people remain. 5:28 a.m.: Swimming's world governing body has suspended Russian champion Evgeny Rylov for nine months after he attended a rally in support of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Al Jazeera reports. Rylov won Olympic gold in the 100- and 200-meter backstroke in Tokyo last year. 5:02 a.m.: The New York Times reports that artillery fire has intensified around Kharkiv, Ukraine, into Friday morning. 4:06 a.m.: Ukraine will not attempt any humanitarian corridors to evacuate civilians on Friday because the roads are too dangerous, the BBC reports, citing Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk. 3:03 a.m.: A Ukrainian lawmaker said Russia is committing genocide during its invasion of Ukraine, CNN reports. Kira Rudik, a member of Ukraine's parliament, told CNN that the behavior of Russian troops shows the country can't be trusted to uphold future peace. “This is why we are explaining to the world that what's happening in Ukraine is called genocide. This is why we're explaining to the world that you cannot get into any peaceful agreement with Russia, because in comparison it is like going into a peaceful agreement with Hitler and saying, ‘Oh, we will talk to him and probably he will spare some lives of the Jews,'" she said. 2:13 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K.'s defense ministry says that heavy shelling and fighting continue in eastern Donbas. It also says that Russian President Vladimir Putin's decision to blockade the Azovstal steel plant rather than launching a siege is likely intended to free up Russian forces for other sites in eastern Ukraine. 1:08 a.m.: CNN reports that Russian tennis star Andrey Rublev says Wimbledon's decision to ban Russian and Belarusian players is "illogical" and "complete discrimination." “At the end of the day we want to compete,” Rublev said. “We are not here to talk about politics, because I have no idea, anything about this. At the end of the day I am Russian, and I was born in Russia and I’ve lived all my life in Russia, and I just want to show that we are good people.” 12:01 a.m.: Ukraine's president says Russia is planning a sham independence vote in occupied regions, Agence France-Presse reports. Speaking in a Thursday video message, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged residents of occupied areas not to provide any personal information to the Russians, saying the information would be used to falsify a vote. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.