For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EDT: 6:25 a.m.: In response to Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine, Britain said Wednesday it had added a further 206 listings under its Russia sanctions regime, Reuters reported. 6:15: a.m.: The Associated Press reported that more than 720 people have been killed in Bucha and other Kyiv suburbs that were occupied by Russian troops and more than 200 are considered missing, the Interior Ministry said early Wednesday. In Bucha alone, Mayor Anatoliy Fedoruk said 403 bodies had been found and the toll could rise as minesweepers comb the area. 5:15 a.m.: President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed Estonian parliament Wednesday urging leaders to stop Russian aggression by acting together and called for continued sanctions on Russia. Zelenskyy said imposing sanctions is the only instrument that could force Russia to consider peace, Reuters reported. 5:00 a.m.: Russia says more than 1,000 Ukrainian troops have surrendered in the besieged southeastern port of Mariupol, The Associated Press reported. Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj.-Gen. Igor Konashenkov said 1,026 troops from the Ukrainian 36th Marine Brigade surrendered at a metals plant in the city. Russian forces moved on Mariupol in late February and units in the city have been running low on supplies. Konashenkov said that the 1,026 Ukrainian marines included 162 officers and 47 female personnel, and that 151 wounded received medical treatment. Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych did not comment on the alleged mass surrender, but said in a post on Twitter that elements of the 36th Marine Brigade had managed to link up with other Ukrainian forces in the city as a result of a “risky maneuver.” 4:45 a.m.: Reuters reported that at least seven people were killed and 22 wounded by shelling in Ukraine’s northeastern region of Kharkiv over the past 24 hours, Governor Oleh Synegubov said on Wednesday. In an online post, he said a 2-year-old boy was among those killed in the 53 artillery or rocket strikes he said Russian forces had carried out in the past day in the region. Reuters added that it could not independently verify the information. Russia denies targeting civilians. 4:00 a.m.: China’s overall trade with Russia rose over 12% in March from a year earlier, slowing from February but still outpacing the growth in China’s total imports and exports, as Beijing slammed Western sanctions on Russia following its invasion of Ukraine. Reuters has the story. 3:30 a.m.: In Kyiv, Zelenskyy was due to host Polish President Andrzej Duda, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda, Latvian President Egils Levits and Estonian President Alar Karis. “Our countries are showing support to Ukraine and President Zelenskiy in this way,” Jakub Kumoch, a Duda adviser, tweeted Wednesday. 3:00 a.m.: Ukraine’s Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar said Wednesday there was a high risk of Russia using chemical weapons against her country, echoing warnings by President Volodymyr Zelenskiyy earlier in the week, according to Reuters. On Tuesday Malyar said authorities were checking unverified reports that Russia may have already used chemical weapons while besieging the Ukrainian port city of Mariupol and that there was a theory that phosphorous munitions had been used. Russia has previously called U.S. talk of Russia using chemical weapons a tactic to divert attention away from awkward questions for Washington and accused Ukraine of preparing to use them, Reuters reported. 2:30 a.m.: Ukraine’s deputy defense minister said it is still too early for civilians to return to places including capital Kyiv, Reuters reported. 2:00 a.m.: The United States is expected to soon announce up to $750 million in additional security assistance to Ukraine as Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskyy appeals for more help to beat back Russian forces. A senior congressional aide told Reuters that while the final package is still under discussion, it is likely to include heavy ground artillery systems, including howitzers. A senior U.S. defense official said Ukrainian forces have received “a significant amount” of the 100 so-called switchblade drones, equipped with tank-busting warheads, promised as part of an earlier $300 million security assistance package. The remaining drones are expected to arrive in Ukraine in the next week or so, as are additional Javelin anti-tank missiles. U.S. President Joe Biden and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday “affirmed their commitment to continue providing security and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine in the face of ongoing atrocities by Russia,” the White House said in a statement. 1:40 a.m.: The Pentagon is holding a classified meeting Wednesday with the heads of the largest U.S. defense contractors to discuss meeting Ukraine’s needs for weapons. Deputy Defense Secretary Kathleen Hicks told reporters she will attend the talks. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Tuesday that that the U.S. will “continue to deliver security assistance and coordinate with Allies and partners to support Ukraine’s capacity to defend itself.”  1:30 a.m.: In its battleground intelligence update Wednesday, the U.K. defense ministry said Russia’s appointment of army general Alexander Dvornikov as commander of the war in Ukraine represents attempt to centralize command and control. Russia’s inability to cohere and coordinate military activity has hampered its invasion of Ukraine to date, the ministry tweeted. General Dvornikov’s appointment shows how Ukrainian resistance and Russia’s ineffective pre-war planning is forcing it to reassess its operations, according to the statement. The U.K. also said Russian messaging has recently emphasized progressing offensives in the Donbas as Russia’s forces refocus eastwards. Reuters could not immediately verify the report.  U.S. officials allege that Dvornikov was responsible for brutal attacks on civilians in the Syrian war zone. VOA’s Ken Bredemeier has the story. 12:30 a.m.: The United States and its allies are pushing ahead with sanctions aimed at forcing Vladimir Putin to spend Russia’s money propping up its economy rather than sustaining its “war machine” for the fight in Ukraine, a top Treasury Department official said Tuesday, The Associated Press reported. Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo, one of the main U.S. coordinators on the Russian sanctions strategy, said in an interview with The Associated Press that the goal is to make Russia “less able to project power in the future.” On the same day that inflation notched its steepest increase in decades, Adeyemo said reducing supply chain backlogs and managing the pandemic are key to bringing down soaring prices that he related to the ongoing land war in Ukraine, which has contributed to rising energy costs. Adeyemo discussed the next steps the U.S. and its allies will take to inflict financial pain on Russia — and the complications the war has on rising costs to Americans back home. Adeyemo said the U.S. and its allies will next target the supply chains that contribute to the construction of Russia’s war machine, which includes “everything from looking at ways to go after the military devices that have been built to use not only in Ukraine, but to project power elsewhere.” 12:00 a.m.: For President Joe Biden, the pain Americans are feeling in their pocketbooks comes down to an increasingly repeated slogan: “Putin’s price hike.” For more than a month now, his administration has tried to blame rising prices on the Russian president’s invasion of Ukraine. But the truth is a little more complicated, analysts say. VOA White House correspondent Anita Powell reports from Washington. No media source currently available Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.