Fighting raged Friday around the port at Mariupol’s Illich Steel and Iron Works as Ukraine tries to break Russia’s siege of the southern city, while Russia is threatening to increase its missile strikes on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv. Russia has used long-range bombers to attack Mariupol for the first time since its February 24 invasion, according to Ukraine Defense Ministry Spokesman Oleksandr Motuzyanyk. "The situation in Mariupol is difficult and hard. Fighting is happening right now, the Russian army is constantly calling on additional units to storm the city, but as of now the Russians haven't managed to completely capture it,” said Motuzyanyk. Meanwhile, The Washington Post is reporting that Moscow this week sent a formal diplomatic communique to the U.S. warning that shipments of the “most sensitive” weapons systems to Ukraine were “adding fuel” to the war and said that could result in “unpredictable consequences.” The Post reports it reviewed a copy of the diplomatic note, which came as U.S. President Joe Biden approved a major expansion of the military hardware being provided. Elsewhere, Russian forces are concentrating efforts on seizing the cities of Rubizhne and Popasna in Ukraine's east. Russia’s Defense Ministry is promising to ramp up missile attacks on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv in response to what it claims is Ukrainian aggression on Russian territory. "The number and scale of missile strikes on targets in Kyiv will increase in response to any terrorist attacks or acts of sabotage on Russian territory committed by the Kyiv nationalist regime," the Russian Defense Ministry said in a statement. Kirill Kyrylo, 38, a worker at a car repair shop in Kyiv, said he had seen three blasts hit an industrial building across the street, causing a blaze that was put out by firefighters. The threat of intensified attacks on Kyiv came after Russian authorities accused Ukraine of launching airstrikes on residential buildings in a border region of Russia. Ukrainian officials have not confirmed striking targets in Russia. However, they claimed their forces struck a key Russian warship with missiles. The guided-missile cruiser Moskva, the flagship of Russia's Black Sea fleet, sank on Thursday while being towed to port after suffering heavy damage. The circumstances remain in dispute. Moscow acknowledged a fire on board the ship but not any attack. Russia's defense ministry also said Friday it had captured the Ilyich steel works in Mariupol, one of the last industrial areas holding out in the besieged eastern city that has seen the war's heaviest fighting and the worst humanitarian catastrophe. Ukraine said it had repelled Russian offensives in the towns of Popasna and Rubizhne, in an area north of Mariupol. Neither report could be independently confirmed.
Russia pulled its troops out of northern Ukraine this month after a huge, armored assault on Kyiv was repelled at the outskirts of the capital. Moscow now says its main war aim is capturing the Donbas, an eastern region of two provinces that are already partly held by Russian-backed separatists and that Russia wants Kyiv to cede. It has sent a new column of thousands of troops into the east for what Ukraine anticipates will be a major assault. Moscow says it hopes to seize all of Mariupol soon, which would make it the first large city it has captured. The Black Sea port, home to 400,000 people before the war, has been reduced to rubble by seven weeks of siege and bombardment, with tens of thousands of people trapped inside. Thousands of civilians have died there. Russia initially described its aims in Ukraine as disarming its neighbor and defeating nationalists there. Kyiv and its Western allies say those are bogus justifications for an unprovoked war of aggression that has driven a quarter of Ukraine's 44 million people from their homes. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.