For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 7:53 a.m.: The Kyiv regional police chief, Andriy Nebytov, said Tuesday that over 1,000 civilians were killed by Russian troops when they occupied the area, the Kyiv Independent reported. He noted that most of them were shot. He said this includes 420 bodies of civilians found in the town of Bucha, northwest of the capital Kyiv. 7:49 a.m.: Poland's health service has capacity to treat at least 10,000 injured Ukrainian soldiers, the Polish prime minister said on Tuesday, as Russia launches a new offensive in eastern Ukraine. Mateusz Morawiecki told reporters during a visit to the western Ukrainian city of Lviv that Poland was already treating "several dozen" soldiers and was prepared to take in more, Reuters reported. "We are ready to take in at least 10,000 (soldiers), if necessary," he said. "We are doing everything to take in and treat all injured soldiers from Ukraine." 7:36 a.m.: Russia’s defense minister has accused the U.S. and other Western nations of supplying Ukraine with weapons so that it continues fighting “until the last Ukrainian,” The Associated Press reported. Sergei Shoigu said Tuesday at a meeting with the top military brass that Washington and its allies are doing all they can to drag out Russia’s “special military operation” in Ukraine. 7:22 a.m.: Russia has destroyed $100 billion worth of infrastructure in Ukraine since it invaded the country February 24, Ukrainian Pravda reported Tuesday, quoting Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov who spoke with Reuters. Approximately 20-30 percent of the country’s infrastructure has been damaged to varying degrees, including roads, bridges, and railways, Kubrakov said. Ukraine’s infrastructure can be rebuilt in two years if Russian assets that have been seized around the world are used to finance it, according to Kubrakov. 7:18 a.m.: The Dutch government on Tuesday said it had reopened its embassy in the Ukrainian city of Lviv, Reuters reported. If the situation is deemed safe enough, the embassy will eventually return to the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, the Dutch Foreign Affairs ministry said. Several other European countries, including France, recently announced they would move back their embassies to Kyiv. 7:01 a.m.: Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba says security for his country also means security for Bulgaria and all other Black Sea countries. “We are fighting not only for our safety,” Kuleba said after talks Tuesday with his Bulgarian counterpart, Teodora Genchovska. No details of the talks have been disclosed, but media reports suggested Kuleba may ask for stronger engagement of Bulgaria in Ukraine’s defense against Russian aggression. Bulgaria and Hungary are the only EU members that have so far been reluctant to send weapons to Kyiv, The Associated Press reported. 6:56 a.m.: Russian forces have seized the city of Kreminna in eastern Ukraine and Ukrainian troops have withdrawn from the city, Serhiy Gaidai, the governor of the Luhansk region, told a briefing on Tuesday. Kreminna, a city of more than 18,000 people about 62 miles southeast of the capital Kyiv, appears to be the first city captured in a new Russian offensive in eastern Ukraine, Reuters reported. "Our defenders had to withdraw. They have entrenched themselves in new positions and continue to fight the Russian army," Gaidai said, adding that Russian forces had attacked "from all sides." 6:27 a.m.: Russia's communications regulator says it has restricted access to the website of Human Rights Watch (HRW) as a result of the group's statements over Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine. A Roskomnadzor official said on Tuesday that the move was made at the request of the Prosecutor-General's Office, adding that the restriction was imposed only on one of the items published on HRW's website about the war in Ukraine. That report -- titled Ukraine: Russian Air-Dropped Bombs Hit Residential Area -- is now inaccessible in Russia. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this story. 6:12 a.m.: French police have begun an investigation into the cause of a fire that ravaged a small Russian Orthodox church in central Paris on Easter Sunday, the Paris firefighting department said. "The damage is very significant," the church said on its Facebook page. "The antimins (altar cloth) and epitaphion (image of Christ icon) are intact. Almost everything else burned down." Since the start of Russia's invasion of Ukraine on February 24, several establishments associated with Russia in France, including a Russian arts center in Paris, have been targeted by acts of vandalism, Reuters reported. 6:05 a.m.: Denmark will boost its own production of natural gas for a limited time and explore maximizing renewable energy sources in order to become independent of Russian gas supplies, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen told reporters. "We are convinced it's better to produce gas in the North Sea than buying it from Vladimir Putin," Frederiksen said. 6:01 a.m.: The Russian invasion of Ukraine — and how world powers should manage the spillover effects on economies, including food insecurity — will take center stage at the spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank this week. On Tuesday, U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen will convene a panel of finance ministers, the international development banks and other institutions. Yellen is expected to use this week's meetings to work with allies on efforts to increase economic pressure on Russia. 5:32 a.m.: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Tuesday that Moscow was starting a new stage of what it calls its special military operation in Ukraine, Reuters reported. "Another stage of this operation (in eastern Ukraine) is beginning and I am sure this will be a very important moment of this entire special operation," Lavrov said in an interview with the India Today TV channel. 5:21 a.m.: A Russian provincial governor accused Ukrainian forces on Tuesday of striking a village near Russia's border with Ukraine and wounding three residents, Reuters reported. "Three people were wounded. One has already been discharged and is being treated as an outpatient. Two women are in hospital, under the care of qualified doctors... The wounds are of moderate severity," said Vyacheslav Gladkov, governor of the Russian province of Belgorod. More than 30 houses were damaged, he added, and electricity and gas supplies will be restored in the next few hours. 5:13 a.m.: The Ukrainian military says Russian forces have launched "aggressive actions" along almost the entire front line in eastern Ukraine, in what President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said was the start of the long-anticipated offensive in the eastern Donbas region. Ukrainian media on Tuesday reported powerful shelling along the front line in the Donetsk region in Maryinka, Slovyansk, and Kramatorsk. Zelenskyy thanked all Ukrainian defenders in all cities, including the besieged Sea of Azov port of Mariupol, and those in the Kharkiv region, which hold and "protect the fate of the whole state." Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this report. 5 a.m.: Russia issued its latest ultimatum for the remaining Ukrainian forces in the besieged southern port city of Mariupol to lay down their arms, saying those who did so by Tuesday afternoon would be "guaranteed survival." Ukraine has rejected previous Russian demands to surrender in Mariupol. 2:15 a.m.: The Ukrainian military's General Staff said Russian forces are focusing on trying to take full control of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and that "missile and airstrikes on civilian targets throughout Ukraine do not stop." 12:05 a.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden is holding a video call with allies Tuesday to discuss what the White House called "our continued support for Ukraine and efforts to hold Russia accountable." Asked Monday if the Biden administration is considering more sanctions against Russia, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the United States will "continue to expand our sanctions targets and continue to take steps to both further tighten our sanctions to prevent evasion." Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.