For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EDT: 5:54 a.m.: Al Jazeera reported that Pope Francis is considering traveling to Kyiv. He said a plan to do so is "on the table." 5:26 a.m.: The New York Times, citing the governor of Ukraine's Luhansk region, said that intense fighting in Lysychansk and Toshkivka had damaged or destroyed 31 buildings. 4:54 a.m.: UNESCO says at least 53 culturally important sites have been damaged in Ukraine since the Russians invaded, the BBC reported. 4:27 a.m.: Speaking to Fox News, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he wouldn't consider ceding territory to Russia as part of a peace deal. 3:05 a.m.: The latest dispatch from the U.K.'s defense intelligence said that Ukraine continues to advance as Russian forces withdraw. Ukrainian forces are currently moving from Irpin toward Bucha and Hostormel. 1:37 a.m.: The BBC reported that China has denied circumventing sanctions on Russia. Wang Lutong of China's foreign minister said that by continuing to trade with Russia, China aimed to help the global economy. The comments come the day after the European Union warned China not to support Russia's war with Ukraine and interfere with sanctions. 12:40 a.m.: New details have emerged about Belarusians fighting for Ukraine against Russia as part of a broader struggle to free their own country from Russian domination and the rule of Moscow-backed autocrat Alexander Lukashenko. Speaking exclusively to VOA in a Tuesday phone interview, the deputy commander of the largest pro-Ukraine Belarusian fighting force said its numbers have almost reached the size of an average Ukrainian battalion, which he said has about 450-500 troops. VOA's Igor Tsikhanenka and Michael Lipin have the story. 12:01 a.m.: The Red Cross will try once more to evacuate people from Mariupol on Saturday, Reuters reported. The aid agency attempted to lead a convoy out Friday but was forced to turn back, saying unsafe conditions made the trip impossible. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters