For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EDT: 2:43 a.m.: Ukrainian authorities estimate Russia withdrew overnight 700 units of equipment from the Kyiv moving them back into Belarus, VOA's Jamie Dettmer writes from Vinnytsia, Ukraine. Gen. Oleksandr Gruzevych, deputy chief of staff of Ukraine’s armed forces, said the departing armored personnel carriers could be redeployed to eastern Ukraine’s Donbas to strengthen forces there for an offensive. “The troops that are leaving the area around Kyiv are pretty significant,” Gruzevych said. The withdrawal seems to be consistent with Russian declarations that Moscow intends to deescalate around Kyiv and to focus on the Donbas. Ukraine’s General Staff reported Friday that it believes Russia aims to take control over areas in Kharkiv, Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts that it doesn’t currently occupy as well as blockade the towns of Kramatorsk and Sloviansk and it predicts Russian will continue to relocate troops to eastern Ukraine. However, Russian ground forces are also facing stiff resistance in their efforts to enlarge their occupation in eastern Ukraine. Ukrainian military officials say overnight seven Russian attacks were repelled in Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts. They claimed three Russian tanks, two armored personnel carriers, two artillery systems were destroyed and a Russian drone shot down. But Russia is also transferring more missile units to Belarus — a possible prelude to an intensification of ballistic missiles attacks on targets across Ukraine. 1:34 a.m.: The regional governor of the Russian city of Belgorod says Ukraine has attacked an oil depot in the city, the BBC reports. The governor says two Ukrainian helicopters fired on it, setting it ablaze. Ukraine has not claimed responsibility for the blasts. 12:05 a.m.: The BBC reports that Australia will send an unspecified number of armored troop carriers to Ukraine. The announcement comes after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed the Australian Parliament, asking for military aid. 12:01 a.m.: Ukraine and Russia will resume peace talks Friday, The Washington Post reports. The discussions will take place online. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters