For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 4:03 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that the cybersecurity agencies of several Western nations are warning the Russia might retaliate against sanctions by launching cyberstrikes. In a news release, U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Director Jen Easterly said, “We know that malicious cyber activity is part of the Russian playbook. We also know that the Russian government is exploring options for potential cyberattacks against U.S. critical infrastructure. Today’s cybersecurity advisory released jointly by CISA and our interagency and international partners reinforces the demonstrated threat and capability of Russian state-sponsored and Russian aligned cyber-criminal groups to our Homeland. 3:21 a.m.: CNN reports that four evacuation buses left the besieged city of Mariupol on Wednesday. 2:22 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry says that Russia likely wants "significant successes" ahead of its May Victory Day holiday. "This could affect how quickly and forcefully they attempt to conduct operations in the run-up to this date," the update says. The update goes on to say that Russian forces are advancing toward Kramatorsk in eastern Ukraine and that Russia continues to attempt to destroy Ukraine's air defenses. 1:32 a.m.: Procter & Gamble, a U.S. manufacturer of household goods, said in a securities filing Wednesday that the conflict in Ukraine may force it out of business in Russia, Al Jazeera reports. The company currently has 2,500 workers in Russia and about 500 in Ukraine. 12:51 a.m.: Chabad.org reports that the victims of Mariupol this month include a 91-year-old Holocaust survivor. Vanda Semyonovna Obiedkova evaded the Germans in 1941 by hiding in a basement. She died April 4 -- hiding in a Mariupol basement, freezing and pleading for water.  12:15 a.m.: Kyiv has accused the International Committee of the Red Cross of working "in concert" with Moscow, Agence France Presse reports. The Red Cross denies it. "The ICRC does not ever help organize or carry out forced evacuations. We would not support any operation that would go against people's will and international law," the organization said in a statement to AFP. 12:01 a.m.: CNN reports that World War II's Soviet victory flag is showing up in parts of occupied Ukraine. The flag's an important part of Russia's May 9 WWII Victory Day celebrations. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.