For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EDT: 4:47 a.m.: The New York Times reported that Austria is expelling four Russian diplomats, the latest nation to do so. 4:07 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reported that British energy giant Shell will write off up to $5 billion as it cuts ties with Russia. 3:37 a.m.: Al Jazeera, citing the mayor of Bucha, Ukraine, reported that 90% of the civilians killed by the Russians in the town were shot, not shelled. 3:03 a.m.: Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted ahead of Thursday's NATO ministerial: "The only way to avert Russian war expanding beyond Ukraine is to provide us with the fullest support. Maximum sanctions. All the weapons. The policy of ‘not provoking Putin’ has failed badly in past years. Help us contain this evil now or risk Putin testing the article 5 later." Speaking at NATO headquarters in Brussels, he said, "My agenda is very simple. It has only three items on it. It's weapons, weapons and weapons," Agence France-Presse reported. 2:35 a.m.: Speaking to CNN, Ukrainian parliament member Sviatoslav Yurash said Bucha and the horrors reported there may just be the beginning. “You will see much more horror on your TV screens," he told CNN's Jake Tapper. "We are seeing the horror in real life. We cannot but state our utter shock at the fact this is possible in our time." 2:06 a.m.: The New York Times reports that organizers for the Boston Marathon have banned runners from Russia and Belarus. 1:43 a.m.: The U.S. Senate will take up legislation Thursday to end normal trade relations with Russia and to ban the importation of its oil, The Associated Press reported. 12:02 a.m.: The U.S. House of Representatives voted Wednesday night to call for a war crimes investigation into alleged atrocities in Ukraine, The New York Times reported. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.