For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. For the latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EDT: 9:38 a.m. : The U.N. refugee agency says it is beefing up its humanitarian aid operation both inside and outside of Ukraine for millions of refugees forced to flee their homes in the face of intensified fighting and increased brutality by Russia’s military forces, VOA’s Lisa Schlein reported Friday.

UNHCR spokesman Matthew Saltmarsh says reception and collective centers are being expanded to receive more internally displaced people. Delivering aid remains challenging in places of active fighting. Nevertheless, he says aid workers continue to try to reach besieged areas, such as Mariupol and Kherson.

“The latest such convoy was on the sixth of April, where UNHCR was among those carrying aid to Sievierodonetsk in Luhansk, eastern Ukraine. For weeks, people there have endured relentless shelling and shortages of basics like water, gas, and electricity,” Saltmarsh said. “Our team was able to deliver solar lamps, blankets, hygiene kits, baby formula and tarpaulin sheets,” he added.

9:12 a.m. Russian citizens are spending on average 40% of their disposable income on food - about twice as much as they did before the Russia-Ukraine war, the director of the U.N. food agency's Russia liaison office told Reuters. Oleg Kobiakov of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) said many Russian households are now resorting to crisis coping strategies as much of their income goes towards basic needs like food. "People are postponing plans like going to college or buying a house. They're saving in case they lose their job, in case of death," he said. 9:01 a.m.: Ukraine’s war has ignited protests in Peru, as anger over inflation goes global, Reuters reported Friday. “The cost of a family’s basic daily needs has brutally gone up,” Marcelo Gonzales told Reuters, surrounded by hundreds of angry residents in the western village of Villacuri. He said he is tired and angry about rapidly increasing living costs in his dusty village on Peru’s desert coast. Inflation in Peru has reached its highest level in a quarter of a century, hammering people already hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic since early 2020.

8:52 a.m.: Stores in Istanbul, once filled with Russian and Ukrainian shoppers, are now experiencing hard times because of the war in Ukraine. The conflict is also causing prices for food and fuel in Turkey to rise. VOA’s Behzod Muhammadiy reports from Istanbul. No media source currently available 8:37 a.m.: Slovakia has donated its S-300 air defense system to Ukraine to help it defend against Russia's aggression, Slovakia Prime Minister Eduard Heger said Friday. Ukraine has appealed to Western nations for air defense equipment to help repel a Russian military onslaught that is now in its second month. Heger, who was visiting Kyiv Friday, also said that Slovakia's own defense was secured. NATO member Slovakia has been operating one battery of the S-300 air defense system, which it inherited after the break-up of Czechoslovakia in 1993, Reuters reported. 8:28 a.m.: President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen that the missile attack on civilians at a Ukrainian train station Friday was “despicable” and that she will offer her personal condolences to Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. The European Commission chief and the EU's top diplomat are in Kyiv Friday to offer financial and moral support for Ukraine. 8:21 a.m.: The European Commission President Ursuala von der Leyen and Josep Borrell, the EU's chief diplomat, arrived in Kyiv on Friday after travelling by train from Brussels. Von der Leyen told reporters the most important message she was bringing was that there "will be the EU path" for Ukraine. "Our goal is present Ukraine’s application to council this summer," she said. Six weeks into Russia's invasion of Ukraine, she pledged her support for Kyiv to "emerge from the war as a democratic country", something, she said, the European Union and other donors would help with. It was a message echoed by Borrell, who also told reporters the visit was a signal that "Ukraine is in control of its territory" and the government was still in charge. 8:18 a.m.: German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier is calling for a war crimes tribunal against Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, German magazine Der Spiegel cited Steinmeier as saying. "Anyone who has responsibility for these crimes will have to explain themselves," Steinmeier told Der Spiegel in an interview, Reuters reported. 8:01 a.m.: A Russian strike on a railway station in Kramatorsk has killed at least 39 people, according to Donetsk Oblast Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko, The Kyiv Independent reported Friday. At least 87 more were wounded, many of which are in critical condition, the governor reported. The spokeswoman of the Donetsk Oblast administration, Tetiana Ihnatchenko, said on national TV that the numbers of casualties are likely to grow. 7:56 a.m. : Ukraine said it aimed to establish up to 10 humanitarian corridors to evacuate trapped civilians on Friday, but civilians trying to flee besieged Mariupol will have to use private vehicles, Reuters reported. The 10 planned safe corridors announced by Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk were all in southern and eastern Ukraine. Vereshchuk said 4,676 civilians had been evacuated from Ukrainian towns and cities on Thursday. Ukrainian officials say Russian forces have been regrouping for a new offensive, and that Moscow plans to seize as much territory as it can in the eastern part of Ukraine known as Donbas bordering Russia.

7:48 a.m.: U.N. health officials have warned that more people in Ukraine will start dying from chronic diseases and preventable illnesses than from war injuries the longer the conflict goes on. The World Health Organization said that health workers in Ukraine were continuing to deliver care in the face of unimaginable human suffering and in areas of total devastation. WHO is calling on Russia to enact an immediate cease-fire and to grant unhindered access of humanitarian assistance for those in need. VOA’s Lisa Schlein has the story. 7:41 a.m.: The U.N. Humanitarian Coordinator in Ukraine, Osnat Lubrani, retweeted the latest U.N. figures on civilians impacted by the war and provided a link to the Ukraine Humanitarian Impact Situation Report updated this week. 7:30 a.m.: The U.N. humanitarian office is moving aid eastwards in Ukraine and plans aid convoys to the rebel regions of Luhansk and Donetsk next week as fighting shifts, spokesperson Jens Laerke told a press briefing on Friday. "We have in our planning convoys to go there I understand already next week. Whether that happens or not depends on the security situation," he said, calling the regions that Russia has recognized as independent states, "areas of heightened humanitarian concern". International U.N. staff are planning to return to Kyiv in the coming days following the withdrawal of Russian troops from nearby areas. More humanitarian hubs were also being set up further east, such as Dnipro. "The idea is to get as physically close to people most in need as possible," Laerke said.

7:24 a.m.: U.N. humanitarian aid chief Martin Griffiths visited Ukraine and Russia this week where he met with both parties and discussed arrangements for a possible humanitarian ceasefire to the six-week old conflict. While there is no commitment for a ceasefire yet, the U.N. said Griffiths would continue to seek agreement on localized ceasefires. After visiting Bucha Thursday, where he saw a mass grave containing 280 bodies, Griffiths said Friday on Twitter “That ceasefire is imperative.” 6:58 a.m.: Is Russia committing genocide in Ukraine? David Simon, a professor of political science and director of the Genocide Studies Program at Yale University, spoke to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty's Todd Prince about this question, why it matters, and why Russia’s power on the UN Security Council is a problem.

6:42 a.m.: Ukrainians in Chernihiv are cleaning up after the Russian Army stopped its attacks and turned its attention to Ukraine's east. Russia's air force bombed residential areas and a church. Correspondent Maryan Kushnir toured the destruction in the city, which is located in northern Ukraine near the borders with Belarus and Russia. He has this story for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. 6:35 a.m.: Testimony and other evidence of suspected war crimes in Ukraine after Russia's invasion must be collected from fleeing refugees so the acts will not go unpunished, EU Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson said on Friday. "We have all seen the pictures, the videos of the result of war crimes. And unfortunately I think that we are going to see even more," she said at a news conference in Prague with the Czech interior minister, Reuters reported. "It is so important that these war crimes will not go unpunished,” she added. 6:31 a.m.: Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed new Western sanctions against Russia but called for further measures, including a full embargo on Russian oil and gas sales, blocking all Russian banks from the SWIFT banking system and closing ports to Russian vessels and goods, VOA News reported.

6:17 a.m. : The European Union Friday agreed on a fifth package of sanctions against Russia for its unprovoked war against Ukraine, including measures banning the import of coal and closing off EU ports from Russian vessels. The newly adopted sanctions target six main themes: Russian coal, financial transactions, transport, imports and exports to Russia, and excluding Russia from public contracts and European funds. The bloc said in a statement, noting that work on further sanctions against Moscow is already under way. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this report. 6:16 a.m.: Russia’s Defense Ministry called reports that Russia was responsible for an attack on the train station in Kramatorsk, Ukraine, a “provocation.” The ministry said in a statement that the missiles used in the strike, Tochka-U, were used only by Ukraine’s armed forces and that Russian troops had not made any strikes against Kramatorsk on Friday, the New York Times reported. 6:10 a.m.: Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Friday called the attack on the Kramatorsk train station “deliberate slaughter” and shared a photo of the aftermath on Twitter. “Russians knew that the train station in Kramatorsk was full of civilians waiting to be evacuated,” he charged. 6:04 a.m.:  In a video shared by the Ukrainian government of the aftermath of a strike on a train station in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, the inscription “for the children” could be seen scrawled in white lettering on the of the missile, The New York Times reported. Unconfirmed reports say 2 kids were among the dead at the train station. 6:02 a.m.: The European Commission chief and the EU's top diplomat will meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv on Friday to offer financial and moral support, Reuters reported. Travelling by train from Brussels to Kyiv, Josep Borrell, the European Union's chief diplomat, told reporters the visit was a signal that "Ukraine is in control of its territory". He also said the trip would allow the bloc to outline the measures the EU has taken to "isolate Russia" over its six-week-old invasion of Ukraine. Borrell and European Commission President Ursula Von der Leyen are the latest Western leaders to visit Kyiv after the prime ministers of Poland, Slovenia and the Czech Republic travelled to meet Zelenskyy last month. 5:42 a.m.: The Washington Post reported the Russia's invasion means Ukraine is unable to export grain -- and that means trouble for the rest of the world. Countries that count on Ukrainian wheat include Pakistan, Lebanon and Egypt. If Ukraine can't export its grain, food prices could spike and hunger could soar around the world, the Post reported. 5:32 a.m.: CNN reported that Ukraine plans to open 10 humanitarian corridors Friday. 5:20 a.m.: Japan said it will expel eight Russian diplomats, becoming the latest in a string of countries taking such action. 5:10 a.m.: The New York Times reported that the EU has banned Russian coal imports as part of new sanctions. 5 a.m.: CNN reported that Ukraine is bracing for a "massive breakthrough" attempt by Russian forces in the Donbas region. 4:42 a.m.: The state rail company said a Russian rocket strike at a train station in Kramatorsk killed more than 30 people and injured more than 100. 4:35 a.m.: The BBC reported that a missile strike on a rail station in eastern Ukraine has killed or injured dozens. 4:17 a.m.: Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov issued a statement calling Ukraine's latest peace proposal "unacceptable." He said accused "Ukrainian neo-Nazis" of "committing atrocities" against Russian prisoners of war. 4:01 a.m.: CNN reported that European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Josep Borrell, the EU’s high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, are heading to Kyiv, Ukraine. 3:27 a.m.: Amnesty International on Thursday said new testimony indicates that Russia committed war crimes in Ukraine. “In recent weeks, we have gathered evidence that Russian forces have committed extrajudicial executions and other unlawful killings, which must be investigated as likely war crimes,” said Agnès Callamard, secretary-general of Amnesty International, in a statement. “Testimonies shows that unarmed civilians in Ukraine are being killed in their homes and streets in acts of unspeakable cruelty and shocking brutality. “The intentional killing of civilians is a human rights violation and a war crime. These deaths must be thoroughly investigated, and those responsible must be prosecuted, including up the chain of command.” 3 a.m.: CNN reported that Ukraine plans to open 10 humanitarian corridors Friday. 2:18 a.m.: The U.K.'s Ministry of Defence, in its latest intelligence update, said that Russian forces have pulled out of northern Ukraine. Some of those forces will be sent to fight in eastern Ukraine as Russia continues to attack the eastern and southern parts of the country. 1:31 a.m.: Reuters reported that Bernard Zonneveld, a Dutch national who's chairman of Russian aluminum giant Rusal, called for an investigation into possible war crimes in Bucha, Ukraine. 12:02 a.m.: Al Jazeera reported that Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says Russia plans to use the corpses of Mariupol victims for propaganda. "They are going to show the victims in Mariupol as if they were killed not by the Russian military, but by the Ukrainian defenders of the city," he said. "To do this, the occupiers collect corpses on the streets, take them out and can use them elsewhere in accordance with the elaborated propaganda scenarios." Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.