An American citizen and former U.S. Marine was killed while fighting alongside Ukrainian forces as Russia launched new attacks in eastern Ukraine. Willy Joseph Cancel, 22, was working with a private military contracting company when he was killed on Monday, and he is the first known U.S. citizen to die while fighting in Ukraine. Cancel signed up to work for the private military contracting company shortly before the war in Ukraine broke out at the end of February, Cancel's mother Rebecca Cabrera told CNN in a phone interview. When the war began, the company began recruiting contractors to fight in Ukraine, and Cancel agreed to go, Cabrera said. "He wanted to go over because he believed in what Ukraine was fighting for, and he wanted to be a part of it to contain it there so it didn't come here, and that maybe our American soldiers wouldn't have to be involved in it," she said. A State Department official told CNN they are "aware of these reports and are closely monitoring the situation." The news followed reports that two British volunteers helping to provide humanitarian relief in Ukraine had been detained by the Russian military at a checkpoint south of Zaporizhzhia. The British non-profit Presidium Network said the two men, both civilians, were working independently as part of a project in Ukraine to provide food, medical supplies and evacuation support. Dominik Byrne, Presidium Network's co-founder, said the men had gone missing on Monday after going into Russian-held territory where they were planning to help evacuate a woman. British trade minister Anne-Marie Trevelyan told Sky News, "The Foreign Office is doing all it can to support and identify these two people." Her comment came after rescue workers Friday morning discovered the body of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty journalist Vira Hyrych. A Russian airstrike hit her residential building in Kyiv the night before. Britain will deploy a team of war crimes experts to support Ukraine with investigations into Russian atrocities, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss announced Friday during a visit to The Hague. In a meeting with International Criminal Court President Judge Piotr Hofmanski, she was expected to reaffirm Britain's full support for the investigation and prosecution of war crimes and the use of sexual violence "not just in the conflict in Ukraine but around the world," the Foreign Office said in a release. Ukraine considering strikes on Russia Russia fired two missiles into Kyiv on Thursday during a visit by U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres, action the Ukrainian president said was a deliberate attempt to humiliate the U.N. "This says a lot about Russia's true attitude toward global institutions, about attempts of Russian authorities to humiliate the U.N. and everything that the organization represents," Zelenskyy said Friday in an overnight video address to the nation. "Therefore, it requires corresponding powerful reaction." Ukraine's presidential adviser said Thursday that Ukraine should decide on whether to strike Russian military facilities. When asked if this could escalate the conflict, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told VOA, "What we're talking about here is not any intention of Ukraine invading Russia, and trying to take Russian territory, going after Russian civilians, going after Russian hospitals. We're talking about consideration of military targets. It's something very different." NATO expansion Russia's invasion of Ukraine has pushed Finland and Sweden to consider applying to become members of the NATO military alliance. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Thursday if they do choose to take that step, the process could be completed quickly. "It is, of course, for Finland and Sweden to decide whether they would like to apply for membership in NATO or not. But if they decide to apply, Finland and Sweden would be welcomed with open arms to NATO," Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels. Russia has expressed opposition to prospective NATO membership for Finland and Sweden, saying if they join, Russia will deploy nuclear weapons and hypersonic missiles to Kaliningrad, a Russian exclave on the Baltic Sea. "This is fundamentally about the right of every nation in Europe to decide its own future," Stoltenberg said. "So, when Russia tries to threaten, to intimidate Finland and Sweden from not applying, it just demonstrates how Russia is not respecting the basic right of every nation to choose its own path." VOA National Security Correspondent Jeff Seldin contributed to this report. Some information came from The Associated Press and Reuters.