For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 6:33 a.m.: Reuters reports that Russia's foreign ministry has barred entry to the country for British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, Defense Secretary Ben Wallace and 10 other British government members and politicians. 5:03 a.m.: A military hardware factory in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv was hit by strikes early Saturday, an Agence France-Presse journalist said, a day after Russian forces bombed a missile unit outside the city. Russia's defense ministry said Moscow's forces had used "high-precision long-range" weapons to hit facilities at an armaments plant in Kyiv. 4:36 a.m.: Maksym Kozytskyy, the governor of the Lviv region in western Ukraine, said Russian Su-35 aircraft that took off from the Baranovichi airfield in Belarus carried out missile strikes in Lviv Saturday morning, according to the Associated Press. In a Telegram post, Kozytskyy also said Ukraine shot down four cruise missiles. 3:15 a.m. Ukraine is using facial recognition software to identify dead or captured Russian soldiers, the Washington Post reports. Ukraine's IT Army, a volunteer force of hackers and activists says it has used those identifications to inform the families of the deaths of 582 Russians, including by sending them photos of the abandoned corpses. Some worry the practice, which seems designed to spark dissent inside Russia, could backfire. 2:20 a.m.: Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on Telegram that over 2,800 people used humanitarian corridors Friday to escape regions in Ukraine where fighting continues. Most of the evacuees fled from Mariupol and Berdyansk to Zaporizhia. 12:45a.m.: Reuters reports that explosions were heard in the early hours on Saturday in Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, and the western city of Lviv. Air raid sirens were going off over most of Ukraine early on Saturday , but there has been no official confirmation of the explosions.