German Chancellor Olaf Scholz Friday announced proof of vaccination or recent negative COVID-19 test will now be required to enter bars and restaurants in the country. Vaccination proof has been required to enter many public venues for several weeks, but the new measure expands the mandate to include eating and drinking establishments. Scholz announced the decision to reporters in Berlin following a COVID-19 strategy meeting with Germany’s 16 regional governors. The leaders also agreed to shorten quarantine — or self-isolation — for those exposed to COVID-19 cases from 12 to 10 days. Those vaccinated or fully vaccinated with a booster will not have to quarantine at all. Scholz said the government met its goal of administering 30 million booster shots by Christmas. He said they are now aiming to administer another 30 million by the end of January. Hong Kong In Hong Kong, health officials Friday announced more than 100 people, including at least nine government officials and several lawmakers, have been sent into quarantine after attending a birthday party where they had encountered two attendees who later tested positive for COVID-19. Hong Kong public health chief Edwin Tsui told reporters the entire guest list of about 170 people would need to be isolated after a second person tested positive for COVID-19. The guest list at the Monday evening party included Home Affairs minister Caspar Tsui, Hong Kong police chief Raymond Siu and immigration minister Au Ka-wang. The guest list included at least 20 lawmakers, but as some left early it is not clear how many will be required to quarantine. The party came three days after health officials advised residents avoid large gatherings. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam Friday express disappointment that officials set such a bad example for the public. Global surge The number of global COVID infections has passed the 300 million mark. It took more than a year to reach the first 100 million and just five months to add the third 100 million, as the world deals with the highly contagious omicron variant. London’s medical professionals and patients have been hard hit by the omicron variant, causing the government to deploy 200 members of the military, including 40 doctors, to the city’s hospitals. Critics of the country’s National Health Service say the omicron surge is exposing the inadequacies of the country’s medical system. The governor of the U.S. state of West Virginia said Thursday the omicron variant is prompting him to seek authorization from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to provide a fourth dose of the COVID vaccine to people in his state who are 50 and older. India’s health ministry reported 117,100 new COVID cases early Friday. Some information for this report was provided by the Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.    