U.S. President Joe Biden launched a new push Thursday to combat gun crime, ramping up prosecutions against violent crime offenders and initiating new efforts to track the flow of illegal guns and pursue illegal gun sales. Biden visited New York City and conferred with the city's new mayor, Eric Adams, a former police captain, who in his first month in office has had to grapple with the killing of two police officers and the shooting of another. Biden said the federal government would be sending $350 million to cities throughout the country to confront a wave of crime that has risen during the two-year coronavirus pandemic. U.S. Republicans often accuse Democrats like Biden of being soft on crime prevention and seeking to cut off funding to law enforcement. But Biden himself declared, "The answer is not to defund the police." Gun control is one of the most contentious of U.S. political issues, with the U.S. Constitution guaranteeing the right to gun ownership. For decades, furious debates have raged over the extent to which that right can be regulated or limited. Despite all-too-frequent mass killings at schools, stores and businesses in the U.S., efforts in Congress to impose tighter controls on gun ownership or ban the sale of automatic weapons have routinely been defeated. Biden did not announce any new push to control gun ownership but said gun manufacturers have "got to be held responsible." He said, "I find it to be outrageous" that the sale of cigarettes is controlled in the U.S., but guns only to a limited degree. The White House said under the new effort, the Justice Department has ordered federal prosecutors throughout the country "to increase resources dedicated to district-specific violent crime strategies … to get repeat gun violence offenders off of our streets." Biden said law enforcement personnel have been ordered to pay new attention to the so-called "Iron Pipeline" – the illegal flow of guns sold in southern U.S. states but found at crime scenes farther north along the country's eastern stretch of cities from Baltimore, Maryland, to New York. The president said a national cadre of prosecutors will be trained to bring cases against those who build ghost guns at home, weapons without serial numbers or other identification, as well as to track unlicensed dealers who sell guns to criminals without the required background checks. During Thursday's visit, Biden and Attorney General Merrick Garland attended an interagency gun violence meeting with Adams and New York state Governor Kathy Hochul, and spoke with local leaders about community intervention efforts to help prevent crime. Adams, who took office at the beginning of the year, has issued his own outline of programs to address gun violence, many focusing on similar issues, such as gun trafficking and boosting youth employment and mental health services. "We must do the work to end this epidemic of gun violence and deliver real peace and safety to our streets," Adams tweeted Wednesday as he noted the shooting of the off-duty police officer in the city. Two New York officers were killed in a shooting last month.