For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine.

The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 6:34 a.m.: AFP reports that Ukraine has lodged a complaint against Russia at the International Court of Justice in The Hague. 5:49 a.m.: Ukrainian ambassador gets standing ovation in Berlin. 5:22 a.m.: The International Judo Federation has issued a statement about Russian President Vladimir Putin: "In light of the ongoing war conflict in Ukraine, the International Judo Federation announces the suspension of Mr. Vladimir Putin’s status as Honorary President and Ambassador of the International Judo Federation." Putin's a black belt. 5:15 a.m.: India has begun evacuating its citizens stranded in Ukraine. 5:10 a.m.: Fears are mounting that Russian forces will turn more to targeting critical civilian infrastructure and mount indiscriminate shelling as the defenders of Kyiv maintain their resistance and hold ground despite redoubled Kremlin efforts to subjugate Ukraine’s capital. VOA's Jamie Dettmer reports from the ground in Ukraine. 4:16 a.m.: The Kremlin had said a Russian delegation was in Belarus for talks with Ukraine, ABC News reports. But Ukraine says different. 3:45 a.m.: China’s decision to take a neutral stance on the invasion of Ukraine raises several questions. Did Beijing develop cold feet at the last moment, or did Russia go much further in its military aggression in Ukraine than China had expected? VOA's Saibal Dasgupta takes a look. 3:08 a.m.: Ukraine's minister of foreign affairs invites foreigners to help defend Ukraine.  2:11 a.m.: The Associated Press reports that Russian troops have entered Kharkiv, the second-largest city in Ukraine, and there's fighting in the streets. 1:44 a.m.: Protesters rallying in support of Ukraine pray in Australia. 1:12 a.m.: A show of support outside the Ukrainian Embassy in Washington. 12:41 a.m.: Oil tanks burn after a massive explosion near Kyiv. CNN has video. 12:05 a.m.: A BBC reporter talks to women making Molotov cocktails in a park in Ukraine. 12:01 a.m.: Protests continue in Australia. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.