The Latest on the Beijing Winter Olympics: Arbitrators have rejected a last-ditch request by American figure skaters to have their silver medals awarded before the end of the Olympics. The Court of Arbitration for Sport said in Beijing that it dismissed the appeal by the nine skaters, who finished second in the team event that was marred by a doping positive by Russia's 15-year-old Kamila Valieva. In an earlier decision, CAS had allowed Valieva to compete in the women's event after her positive doping test result went public. The International Olympic Committee responded by saying that no medals would be awarded in any event where she finished in the top three. First hockey medal for Slovakia Slovakia has won its first Olympic hockey medal in the nation's history. Slovakia defeated Sweden 4-0 to win the bronze medal in men's hockey at the Beijing Winter Games. Juraj Slafkovsky scored two goals for Slovakia. Slafkovsky at 17 is the youngest player in the tournament and leads all scorers with seven goals. Slovakia is coached by Canada-born Craig Ramsay. Ramsay played 14 NHL seasons and was an assistant in the league for two decades. Finland plays the Russians for gold on Sunday. Germany rules sliding events Laura Nolte and Mariama Jamanka added to Germany's record haul of Olympic sliding medals. And U.S. bobsledder Elana Meyers Taylor extended her medal record. The German sliding domination of the Beijing Games continued Saturday night. Nolte drove to gold, and Jamanka won the silver in the women's bobsled competition. Germany is now up to eight gold medals in nine sliding events in Beijing. That's more than any nation has ever won in sliding at any Olympics. Meyers Taylor, in possibly her last race, grabbed the bronze for the fifth medal of her Olympic career. That's more than any Black athlete in Winter Olympic history. It's also the most by any women's bobsledder at the Olympics and two more than any other Olympic bobsledder, male or female, has won for the U.S. Gold for China’s pairs figure skaters China's Sui Wenjing and Han Cong captured the Olympic gold medal that eluded them by a razor-thin margin four years ago, this time winning the pairs figure skating program by nearly as narrow an edge at the Beijing Games. The two-time world champions, buoyed by the support of a crowd of Chinese supporters, scored a world-record 239.88 points to edge Russia's Evgenia Tarasova and Vladimir Morozov by 63-hundredths of a point. Sui and Han had to settle for silver in Pyeongchang by 43-hundredths of a point. Tarasova and Morozov were joined on the podium by Russian teammates Anastasia Mishina and Aleskandr Galliamov, the reigning world champions, who scored 237.71 points to earn the bronze medal. China gets its ninth gold medal at these Games, nearly double its previous Winter Games best of five. Weather moves up cross country race The 30-kilometer women's cross country ski race set for Sunday at the Beijing Olympics will start two-and-a-half hours earlier than originally scheduled due to harsh weather conditions Strong winds are forecast for a second day. The men's 50-kilometer race on Saturday was shortened to 30 kilometers as temperatures dropped and winds blasted the ski trails. The women's distance of 30K will remain the same. The race was supposed to start at 2:30 p.m. but will start at 11 a.m. instead. Sweden takes gold in men’s curling Sweden's Niklas Edin has claimed the only major title missing from a career in which he's established himself as the most decorated skip in curling history. Four years after losing in the Pyeongchang final to American upstart John Shuster, Edin led Sweden to the gold medal on Saturday, beating Britain 5-4 in the first extra-end men's final in Olympic history. With the medal podium already set up, and Canada standing by to collect the bronze it won Friday by ending the Americans' repeat hopes, Edin took advantage of the last-rock advantage in the first tiebreaker end and put his penultimate stone into the center of the target area. When British skip Bruce Mouat failed to knock it out on a ricochet, the Swedes had clinched it. They paused — it's not polite to celebrate an opponent's miss — and then let out a yell.