Myanmar’s former leader Aung San Suu Kyi will go on trial for election fraud next month, after being charged with influencing the election commission in the run up to a November 2020 ballot that was won in a landslide by her party. The military overthrew the government of Suu Kyi a year ago, alleging unaddressed poll irregularities. She is on trial in more than a dozen cases that carry combined maximum sentences of more than 100 years in prison and denies all charges. The following is a summary of the sentences and cases against Suu Kyi, 76, based on information available to Reuters: - Intent to incite, after her party sent a letter in February to international organizations asking them not to recognize the military government (Penal Code, Article 505). Sentenced to two years in prison in December 6, 2021. - Breaches of coronavirus regulations during her party’s election campaigning in September 2020 (Natural Disaster Management Law, Article 25). Sentenced to two years in prison Jan. 10, 2022, after a two-year sentence in December 2021 on a similar charge. - Possession in February of unlicensed walkie-talkies and a set of signal jammers (Export and Import Law, Article 8). One case, maximum 3 years in prison. (Telecommunications Law, Article 67). Sentenced on Jan. 10 to two years and one year in jail, respectively, on the charges. The sentences are to be served concurrently. - Obtaining, collecting, recording, or publishing or communicating secret information that could be useful to an enemy (Official Secrets Act). One case, maximum 14 years in prison. - Influencing the Union Election Commission in the 2020 elections (Penal Code article 130-A). One case, maximum three years in prison and a fine. - Violations of the anti-corruption law (Sections 55, 63). 10 cases, maximum 15 years in prison for each. Allegations include: * Misusing funds from the Daw Khin Kyi Foundation Suu Kyi chaired, to build a home. * Leasing government-owned land at a discounted rate. * Accepting bribes totaling $600,000 and 11.4 kg of gold bars. * Misuse of state funds for lease of a helicopter.   