For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine.

The latest developments of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, all times EST: 10:20 a.m.: VOA Nike Ching reports that the U.S. State Department today re-issued its Travel Advisory for Ukraine to include information regarding Russia’s military actions: Ukraine Travel Advisory Level 4 – Do Not Travel "Do not travel to #Ukraine due to armed conflict and #COVID-19," said @StateDept. The State Department reissued the travel advisory on Feb. 25 for #Ukraine and urged Americans to depart immediately. @VOANews 👇 pic.twitter.com/tAOPM12kLM 9:57 a.m.: Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, calls on the U.S. to lead an effort to ban Russia from SWIFT. The SWIFT system, or Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, is a global provider of secure financial messaging, and facilitates financial transactions and money transfers across the world. Another call with my American friend and counterpart @SecBlinken on the need to use all US influence on some hesitant European countries in order to ban Russia from SWIFT. We also discussed further supply of defensive weapons to Ukraine. 9:38 a.m.: “Russia has shattered peace on the European continent,” said NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg at the start of a meeting Friday to discuss Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. "#Russia has shattered peace on the #Europe|an continent" per SecGen @jensstoltenberg at start of @NATO mtg on #Russia-#Ukraine "What we have warned against for months has come to pass...#Moscow bears sole responsibility for the deliberate, cold-blooded & long-planned invasion" pic.twitter.com/YLks2Xdo83  9:34 a.m.: The Russian attack on Ukraine has put a spotlight on another place that could face an invasion by its larger neighbor, as some analysts draw quick comparisons to China's threats to assert its control over self-ruled Taiwan. 9:25 a.m.: VOA’s Phil Mercer looks at protests that erupted in Australia.

9:20 a.m.: After Russian troops invaded Ukraine, Americans took to the streets to call for peace and an end to the war. VOA’s Senior Washington Correspondent Carolyn Presutti reports. No media source currently available 9:13 a.m.: VOA’s Jeff Seldin has the readout from a phone call between Britain’s Prime Minister and Ukraine’s President about Russian military advances today: Just in: #Britain PM @BorisJohnson spoke by phone w/#Ukraine President @ZelenskyyUa FridayZelenskyy shared updates on #Russia's military advances, "including missile & artillery strikes on Ukrainian cities & the terrible developments in #Kyiv in the early hours of this morning" pic.twitter.com/g0BBd6FdZO  9:03 a.m.: According to Nike Ching, VOA’s State Department Correspondent, the U.S. has expelled Russia’s number 2 diplomat in Washington in retaliation for the Russian expulsion of the second ranking U.S. diplomat in Moscow earlier this month. The State Department said the expulsion is unrelated to Russia's invasion of Ukraine but part of a continuing dispute between the U.S. and Russia over embassy staffing. President Biden said yesterday "there is a complete rupture right now in U.S.-Russian relations if they continue on this path that they’re on." But is does not mean the U.S. is closing its embassy in Moscow and severing diplomatic ties with Russia, according to the State Department. 8:48 a.m.: VOA’s Jeff Seldin offers this analysis: 8:35 a.m.: VOA’s Jamie Dettmer reports: “Kremlin says Russia to send delegation to Minsk to negotiate with Ukrainians — this comes after two appeals today from Zelenskyy saying he was ready to sit and talk.” 8:14 a.m. : Updated - VOA’s Rob Garver reports: 8:09 a.m.: VOA's Heather Murdock filed this report from Kyiv, where citizens and Ukraine's military await the Russian advance: No media source currently available 7:43 a.m.: Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy on Friday to express concern over Russia's invasion of Ukraine to Moscow's ambassador in an unprecedented departure from diplomatic protocol. Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said the pope spent about 30 minutes at the embassy, which is close to the Vatican. 7:40 a.m.: VOA’s Jamie Dettmer further reports: “More shootings inside Kyiv — Ukrainian intelligence say not the result of a main force penetration but carried out by saboteurs and Russian special forces, some in civilian clothing.”

7:33 a.m.: VOA’s Jamie Dettmer tweeted “Unconfirmed reports circulating that Russian tanks, armored vehicles are moving south from Zhytomyr with aim of swinging east to target Kyiv from south; causing anxiety for Kyiv residents heading out from city on west side.” Unconfirmed reports circulating that Russian tanks, armored vehicles are moving south from Zhytomyr with aim of swinging east to target Kyiv from south; causing anxiety for Kyiv residents heading out from city on west side  7:05 a.m.: VOA's Jamie Dettmer reports: “Ukraine’s defense minister says even Ukrainians over 60 years of age should enlist. But I am sitting in a car with a reservist who has impatiently been waiting for days to be called up to join his unit. One key story about this invasion when people look back will be the lack of Ukrainian preparedness, something VOA wrote about the day before Russia launched the offensive.”

6:55 a.m.: The Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA) reports that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin Friday. According to SANA, al-Assad characterizes Russia’s action in Ukraine as “a correction to history” that will “re- balance the world” that was lost after the dissolution of the Soviet Union.

6:25 a.m.: According to the Associated Press, the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) will no longer host the Champions League final in St. Petersburg after Russia launched a wide-ranging attack on Ukraine. An extraordinary meeting of the UEFA executive committee will be held Friday to discuss the geopolitical crisis. 5:40 a.m.: A CNN reporter says Ukraine is telling its citizens to use Molotov cocktails against Russian forces. Ukraine says Russian forces have entered Kyiv’s Obolon district, a suburb in the city’s northwest, and is asking citizens to attack the Russian forces with Molotov cocktails https://t.co/4yNKdc0QXM 5:23 a.m.: Scenes from Ukraine, via Al-Jazeera: Ukraine assesses the damage as Russian strikes hit Kyiv — in pictures https://t.co/PFJoMXjBCF pic.twitter.com/e66SEHJR73 4:40 a.m.: Agence France-Presse has a map detailing where the fighting is: 4:29 a.m.: European Union leaders have announced what they called “massive” sanctions against Russia for invading Ukraine during an emergency summit in Brussels that spilled into the early hours of Friday. The measures come amid reports of Russian troops moving ever closer to Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv. VOA's Lisa Bryant has the story. 3:55 a.m.: Human Rights Watch offers insight on international law. #Russia #Ukraine and the laws of war Q&A by @hrw https://t.co/QTNxCcU226 3:38 p.m.: VOA's Jamie Dettmer reports: Ukraine’s Office of the President says ready to open negotiations with #Russia to agree "neutral status" but in return for security guarantees. “We should stop this war,” said adviser to the president. 3:10 a.m.: Reuters reports that the International Criminal Court may investigate allegations of war crimes in Ukraine. 3 a.m.: VOA's Jamie Dettmer reports: Gunfight under way in northernmost district of Kyiv between Ukrainians and Russia special forces, officials say. 2:41 a.m.: VOA's Jamie Dettmer reports: Ukraine intelligence officials tell newspaper Ukrainska Pravda that Russians aim to cause panic, havoc in Kyiv, disconnect electricity and communications, mount sabotage, prompt bigger refugee surge, seize government buildings and leadership, making them sign Russian-dictated peace deal by threatening to strike civilian infrastructure and cause more casualties. 2:37 a.m.: The Seattle Times reports on the propaganda war. TikTok videos, propagandized headlines and tweets being shared on smartphones and screens around the globe are confusing millions about the reality of how Russia's invasion of Ukraine is unfolding on the ground. https://t.co/fLnD8PsBSK 2:22 a.m.: VOA's Jamie Dettmer has photos from the outskirts of Kyiv:  2:13 a.m.: Would things be different if Trump were in the White House? It’s an argument that some experts on Russia policy agree with -- just not for the reasons being put forward by critics of President Joe Biden, a Democrat. VOA's Rob Garver has the story. 2 a.m.: American actor Sean Penn is in Ukraine. Sean Penn in Ukraine to make documentary on Russian attack https://t.co/MGANOXWv0Y 1:54 a.m.: VOA's Jamie Dettmer reports: Sumy authorities say a lot of Russian armored vehicles passed through from Kharkiv heading in direction of Kyiv. 1:22 a.m.: Inside a bomb shelter in Kyiv, Ukraine: 1:05 a.m.: Thousands of Indian nationals are trapped in Ukraine. India seeks evacuation of thousands of nationals from Ukraine as Modi calls Putin https://t.co/32xXoUR4an pic.twitter.com/wTqHllOzbB 12:10 a.m.: Facebook and rumors of "kill lists." Kill list fears. People in Ukraine can lock down their Facebook pages as a security measure, the platform says, following warnings Russia is creating kill lists after its invasionhttps://t.co/mLnDY5Hnv5 pic.twitter.com/DkNOkhk35i 12:03 a.m.: VOA's Jeff Seldin on Vladimir Putin: 12:01 a.m.: Reuters reports that protests around the world denounce Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Protesters turned out on public squares and outside Russian embassies in cities from Tokyo to Tel Aviv and New York to denounce the invasion of Ukraine, while more than a thousand who tried to do the same in Russia were arrested https://t.co/AgTZ9t7Mcu pic.twitter.com/sBghxk7ZAB  Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.