Here is a summary of Uyghur-related news around the world in the past week. Uyghur grad student detained in Xinjiang Radio Free Asia reported that a Uyghur graduate student from a Japanese university was detained by Chinese government in the Uyghur region. Uyghurs in Britain face intimidation A report by civil liberties group Index on Censorship revealed that Uyghurs in exile were intimidated by China. NBC Olympics host calls out China’s ‘genocide’ of Uyghurs NBC host was praised for calling out China’s treatment of Uyghurs during Olympic coverage. UN labor report says China uses ‘coercive measures’ The U.N. labor agency, International Labor Organization, said in a report that Uyghurs and other ethnic groups from China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region have work conditions signaling “coercive measures” that deprive them of free choice. Uyghur restaurateur says he cannot watch Beijing Olympics A Uyghur restaurant owner in Washington said that he can’t watch the Olympics in Beijing because it is a reminder of his family members imprisoned in Xinjiang. Uyghurs demand accountability for ‘Ghulja Massacre’ RFA reported that Uyghurs were demanding the Chinese government to account for 200 Uyghur protesters who were killed 25 years ago when the Chinese government violently suppressed a demonstration where they were demanding religious freedom. News in brief Report: 2008 Beijing Olympics Uyghur torchbearer sentenced to prison Uyghur Beijing Olympics torchbearer in 2008 was sentenced to 14 years in prison for watching “counter-revolutionary videos.” Adil Abdurehim was hailed as a loyal Chinese government official and chosen to carry the Olympic torch 14 years ago. Quote of note “The committee is bound to observe, however, that the employment situation of Uyghurs and other Muslim minorities in China provides numerous indications of coercive measures, many of which arise from regulatory and policy documents,” experts with the U.N. labor agency International Labor Organization wrote. 