For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT.  10:47 a.m.: It may take years to hold perpetrators of war crimes in Ukraine accountable, the European Union's top justice official told Reuters on Monday, but those responsible should know the threat of prosecution will hang over them "forever." EU Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders spoke as the United States and more than 40 other countries work to align evidence to help prosecution and trials for atrocities Russian troops committed in Ukraine. "It will be for the next weeks, next months, next years, maybe for the next decades. For some cases, it will be very fast. It will be longer for others," said Reynders. "But it is also a clear message to the Russian authorities - the risk of these investigations and prosecutions and trials will hang over them for the rest of their lives. It's forever." Russia has denied targeting civilians in Ukraine. 9:38 a.m.: Officials from Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and the United Nations will most likely meet this week to discuss resuming Ukraine's Black Sea grain exports, Ankara said on Monday, while a Turkish official said lingering "small problems" should be overcome, Reuters reported. Russia's invasion of Ukraine - two major global wheat suppliers - has sent prices for grains and other food products soaring. It has stalled Kyiv's exports, leaving dozens of ships stranded and some 20 million tons of grain stuck in silos at Odesa. Last week Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar said Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and the U.N. would sign a deal this week on the grain exports corridor after talks in Istanbul. But U.N. chief Antonio Guterres warned there was still "a long way to go" before there would be peace talks to end the war 8:00 a.m.: Six people have been killed after Russia’s military shelled a building in the eastern Ukrainian town of Toretsk, Ukrainian emergency service officials said on Monday, RFE/RL reported. "Early in the morning, the town of Toretsk was shelled. A two-story building with people inside was destroyed," the Ukrainian State Service for Emergency Situations said in a statement on social media. The service posted photographs on social media of rescue workers digging through rubble and what was left of the devastated building, and said the search for survivors had ended. Toretsk, a town with an estimated population of 30,000 people, is located some 50 kilometers south of Kramatorsk, one of the last Ukrainian-controlled towns in the industrial east. 7:21 a.m.: European Union foreign ministers are zooming in Monday on tightening the extensive package of sanctions on Russia and looking at ways to add a ban on gold exports in hopes that the measures might finally start to have a decisive impact on the war in Ukraine, the Associated Press reports. EU foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell said that at the moment “the most important thing is a ban on Russian gold,” which is Moscow's second largest export industry after energy. The G-7 group of leading industrial nations last month already committed to a gold ban, arguing the Russia has used its gold to back up its currency to circumvent the impact of several rounds of sanctions that nations around the world had already imposed on Moscow for its Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. 5:50 a.m.: The Kyiv Independent reports that prosecutors say Russia's war on Ukraine has killed or injured hundreds of children. ⚡️Prosecutors: Russia’s war has killed at least 353 children, wounded 666 since Feb. 24. The numbers are expected to be higher since they do not include casualties in the Russian-occupied territories and areas where hostilities are ongoing.  4:45 a.m.: Mariupol, in front of the bombed drama theater where hundreds of people died. Mariupol is Ukraine. 💔 pic.twitter.com/OE88pkI6fE  3:45 a.m.: Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba urged European Union foreign ministers to provide more military aid, enact an embargo on Russian energy and put a cap on Russian oil prices. He also encouraged European support for a tribunal to punish crimes of aggression against Ukraine. Today, I addressed EU ministers at the Foreign Affairs Council on @JosepBorrellF’s kind invitation. My key message: weapons to Ukraine, sanctions on Russia, and accountability for Russia are the three ways to restore peace, enhance security, and protect stability in Europe 1/2  2:30 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 18 July 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/FLMyNFy4J2🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/F4p4UkX1KT  1:30 a.m.: U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is hosting Ukrainian first lady Olena Zelenska for a meeting Monday in Washington. 12:08 a.m.: Amid continued Russian shelling of Ukrainian cities, European Union foreign ministers are set to meet on Monday to discuss tightening sanctions against Moscow, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported. Among the measures being considered – and likely to be approved – is a ban on gold purchases from Russia, a move already put in place by international partners. The EU could also act to impose sanctions on additional Russian individuals. "Moscow must continue to pay a high price for its aggression," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Friday in presenting the proposals that foreign ministers will consider Monday. A senior EU official told AFP the EU was likely to discuss new sanctions at the meeting but would not make an immediate decision.