For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 5:08 a.m.: U.S. think tank The Institute for the Study of War said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Ukrainian forces may be preparing for a counteroffensive toward Kherson City. Meanwhile, Russian forces seem to be conducting an operational pause and preparing for more intense offensives, the assessment said. Russia's operations pause hasn't stopped limited ground attacks, however. Troops attacked north of Kharkiv City, tried to advance toward Bakhmut from the south and attempted to push westward toward Siversk from the Luhansk-Donetsk oblast border, the assessment said. 4:17 a.m.: The daily intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said heavy shelling continued along the Donetsk front line but Russia made few advances. The update also said Russia is working on economic measures to support its operations in Ukraine without a formal declaration of state mobilization. 3:12 a.m.: Al Jazeera reported that German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said that in light of the war with Ukraine, Russia must not be allowed to use this week's G-20 gathering as a platform. Both she and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken have said they will not meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who will be attending the gathering, Al Jazeera reported. Meanwhile, Australia's foreign minister called the war in Ukraine "immoral." 2:08 a.m.: Josep Borrell, the European Union high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, asked China to play a more constructive role in the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Discussed w/ Chinese State Councillor/FM Wang Yi EU-China relations.Called on China to play more constructive role in addressing Russia’s war against Ukraine and stopping disinformation on what are the causes and the disastrous global economic consequences of Russia's attack. pic.twitter.com/ORAQ1F5zx0 1:11 a.m.: Russian-born Elena Rybakina said she wanted the war in Ukraine to end "as soon as possible" after reaching the Wimbledon semi-finals on Wednesday, Reuters reported. Now representing Kazakhstan, and the first player from that country to reach the last four of a Grand Slam, Rybakina faces a semi-final with Romanian 2019 champion Simona Halep. Rybakina, 23, who was born in Moscow and switched allegiance from Russia four years ago, was asked afterwards whether she felt Kazakh or Russian, a sensitive subject at a tournament that this year barred players from Russia and Belarus due to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine. "I was born in Russia but of course I am representing Kazakhstan. It's already a long journey for me," she said. "I was playing Olympics, Fed Cup before. I got so much help and support. "For me it's tough question just to say exactly what I feel." Asked about the war in Ukraine, she added: "I just want the war to end as soon as possible. Peace, yeah." 12:02 a.m. Ukraine is investigating more than 21,000 war crimes and crimes of aggression by Russian troops, the BBC reported. Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said she was getting reports of 200-300 war crimes a day, the BBC said. She said that Russian soldiers who commit crimes "should understand that it's only a question of time when they all will be in court." Russia has denied all allegations of war crimes. Some information in this report came from Reuters.