For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT. 11:35 a.m.: A local blacksmith in Sumy, Ukraine, who used to weld metal to make furniture, has transformed his business in the face of war. VOA’s Olena Adamenko has the story. No media source currently available 11:10 a.m.: The World Food Programme (WFP) said it was optimistic about a U.N.-brokered deal to reopen Ukrainian ports for grain exports but warned the agreement alone will not solve the global food crisis even if it is implemented effectively, Reuters reported. Russia, Ukraine, the United Nations and Turkey signed a deal on Friday aimed at allowing safe passage for ships going in and out of three Ukrainian Black Sea ports that have been blocked by Russia since Moscow's Feb. 24 invasion. "We're optimistic the deal could lead to improvements in global food prices. Countries dependent on grain supplies from the Black Sea would likely be the first to feel a positive impact," a WFP spokesperson told Reuters. She added, however, that the current global food crisis is not a price crisis alone, and that man-made conflict, climate shocks and the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to drive up global food insecurity even if Friday's deal holds. 10:40 a.m.: The number of people pushed into hunger has INCREASED by a shocking 150 million compared to before the pandemic.Understand the numbers - and what's driving them: https://t.co/RhIGTkN6FK pic.twitter.com/zBQi9vZNHu  10:20 a.m.: Russian natural gas giant Gazprom said on Monday that sanctions were still hampering maintenance of the Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline, a strong signal that energy supplies to Europe remain at risk unless the West eases sanctions imposed over Ukraine, Reuters reported. 10:00 a.m.: French President Emmanuel Macron embarked on a three-nation tour of Africa Monday, The Associated Press reported. The four-day visit to Cameroon, Benin and Guinea-Bissau is the French leader’s first diplomatic trip outside of Europe since winning re-election, showing how Africa is high on the list of priorities for the former colonial power. On the agenda will be common challenges such as the fight against terrorism and combating climate change. But Macron will also discuss the consequences of the conflict in Ukraine, such as ballooning inflation and the cost of living and a likely food crisis due to halts on Ukraine’s key exports of wheat, barley and sunflower oil. Russia and Ukraine provide over 40% of Africa’s wheat supply. The visit is seen as shoring up bilateral cooperation for France at a time when Russian officials have also been visiting African nations in moves to rally support. Of particular concern are links in the wider African region — including in the Central African Republic and Mali — to the Russian paramilitary organization the Wagner Group that is seen by the EU as a destabilizing force. In his first stop in Cameroon — central Africa’s biggest economy and an agricultural hub — Macron will discuss food production and how the country will try to fill the Ukraine-linked supply vacuum in the region. 9:55 a.m.: Restrictions on diesel imports from Russia following Moscow's invasion of Ukraine have undermined the fuel’s status in Europe as a cheaper alternative to petrol, amplifying a cost of living crisis across the region, Reuters reported. Analysis: Europe's diesel drivers bound for more Russian price pain https://t.co/JwyyJuYapV pic.twitter.com/qjdPapVW0d  9:40 a.m.: The 2023 Eurovision Song Contest will be hosted by the United Kingdom, which has been chosen to take over next year's competition after Ukraine was deemed unable to host due to safety and security concerns arising from the war with Russia, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported Monday. The European Broadcasting Union (EBU) said in a statement on July 25 that bidding for a host city in the United Kingdom, which placed second behind Ukraine in the 2022 competition, will begin this week. "The 2023 Eurovision Song Contest will not be in Ukraine but in support of Ukraine," said Mykola Chernotytskyi, head of the Ukrainian state broadcaster that was to head up the 2023 event. 9:25 a.m.: The European Union has urged countries to curb gas use now to help fill storage ahead of winter and warned that a full cut-off of Russian gas is likely. But the EU plan has faced resistance from a swathe of governments, with some flatly against binding cuts and others unwilling to let Brussels control their energy use, Reuters reported. 9:10 a.m.: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visited Congo Republic on Monday, the second leg of an African tour aimed at strengthening Moscow's ties with a continent that has refused to join Western condemnation and sanctions over Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Reuters reported. African countries, which have a tangled legacy of ties with both the West and the former Soviet Union, have largely avoided taking sides over the war in Ukraine. Many import Russian grain and, increasingly, energy too but they also buy Ukrainian grain and benefit from Western aid flows and trade ties. Lavrov has already visited Egypt and will head from Congo to Uganda, then Ethiopia. Africa is also being courted by the West this week, with French President Emmanuel Macron due to visit Cameroon, Benin and Guinea-Bissau and U.S. Special Envoy for the Horn of Africa Mike Hammer on his way to Egypt and Ethiopia. 8:50 a.m.: Anti-war activists are removing symbols of Russia's war on Ukraine that have appeared on city streets throughout Serbia since the early days of the invasion. The facades are decorated with murals of Vladimir Putin, Russian paramilitary groups accused of war crimes and also portray Serbian volunteers fighting alongside Russia in Ukraine. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this story.  8:25 a.m.: Russia’s top diplomat said Moscow’s overarching goal is to topple the government of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, making Russian war aims more explicit as its forces keep pummeling Ukraine with artillery barrages and air strikes, The Associated Press reported. The remark from Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov comes amid Ukraine’s efforts to resume grain exports from its Black Sea ports, something that would help ease global food shortages, under a new deal tested by a Russian strike on Odesa over the weekend. Speaking to envoys at an Arab League summit in Cairo late Sunday, Lavrov said Moscow is determined to help Ukrainians “liberate themselves from the burden of this absolutely unacceptable regime.” Lavrov accused Kyiv and “its Western allies” of spouting propaganda intended to ensure that Ukraine “becomes the eternal enemy of Russia.” “Russian and Ukrainian people would continue to live together, we will certainly help Ukrainian people to get rid of the regime, which is absolutely anti-people and anti-historical,” he said. Lavrov’s remarks contrasted sharply with the Kremlin’s line early in the war, when Russian officials repeatedly emphasized that they weren’t seeking to overthrow Zelenskyy’s government. 8:10 a.m.: On @Breakingviews: Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has pushed up food and energy costs around the globe. The most urgent problems are in poorer countries, write William Rhodes and Stuart Mackintosh in a guest view https://t.co/4J46N6pKVA  8:05 a.m.: Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov says he hopes the first shipments of grain under a deal mediated by the United Nations and Turkey will leave the country's Chornomorsk port this week, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported. Speaking at a news conference on Monday, Kubrakov said there was no limit stipulated in the deal as to the amount of grain that could be shipped from Ukraine. "We expect the agreement to start working in the coming days...We are preparing for everything to start this week," said Kubrakov, who led Ukraine's delegation at talks to clinch the deal in Istanbul last week. 7:50 a.m.: ⚡️Defense Minister: Germany starts sending Gepard self-propelled anti-aircraft guns to Ukraine.Three German Gepards have arrived in Ukraine, Oleksii Reznikov said, as reported by the European Pravda media outlet. Ukraine is currently expecting to receive 15 Gepards, he added.  7:40 a.m.: Wheat prices rose sharply on Monday after Russian missiles struck the Ukrainian port of Odesa over the weekend, despite claims by the Kremlin that the strike targeted military installations and that it would not affect grain exports, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported. However, wheat futures on the Chicago Board of Trade rose nearly 4 percent to $7.86 a bushel on Monday, regaining much of the ground lost after the signing of the agreement. Ukraine is one of the world’s largest exporters of wheat, corn, and sunflower oil, but Russia’s invasion of the country and its naval blockade of Ukrainian ports have halted shipments. That has caused global food prices to spike, leaving millions of people in impoverished countries at risk of hunger and sparking fears of social unrest. 7:25 a.m.: The Ukrainian fighters standing in Russia’s way on eastern front https://t.co/RIglk9hHxJ pic.twitter.com/odrCq7lajN  7:05 a.m.: Ukrainian forces have destroyed 50 Russian ammunition depots using U.S.-supplied HIMARS rocket systems in the war with Russia, Reuters reported Monday citing Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov. “This cuts their [Russian] logistical chains and takes away their ability to conduct active fighting and cover our armed forces with heavy shelling,” he said in televised comments. Reuters could not independently verify Reznikov’s remarks about the use of High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems (HIMARS). Russia did not immediately comment. 6:30 a.m.: In a bombed-out building in northern Ukraine, more than 200 young people have found a novel way to help rebuild their country. The daytime “clean-up rave” attracts volunteers to help with recovery efforts after major devastation from Russian attacks. https://t.co/YyAeAOUkKB  6:10 a.m.: Russia said Monday its missile strikes on the Ukrainian port of Odesa should not affect an agreement to resume grain exports. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the strikes hit only military infrastructure and were “no way related to infrastructure that is used for the export of grain.” Russia had initially denied any involvement in the Saturday strike, but said Sunday its forces were responsible. Ukrainian officials said they were working to get grain exports going again following the deal Ukraine and Russia signed on Friday. The United Nations and Turkey helped broker the agreement, which calls for Russia’s fleet in the Black Sea to allow safe passage through areas that Russia has blockaded since it launched its invasion of Ukraine in late February. 5:45 a.m.: The Kyiv Independent reports that residents of a village in Mykolaiv Oblast were evacuated to Odesa, a regional capital in southern Ukraine, on July 25, according to the Mykolaiv City Council. 5 a.m.: Russia’s Defense Ministry said on Monday that its forces had destroyed an ammunition depot for U.S.-made HIMARS rocket systems in Bogdanovtsy, in Ukraine’s Khmelnytskyi region. However, Reuters said it was unable to independently confirm the reports. Russia has previously said it has destroyed several of the HIMARS systems supplied to Ukraine by the West, in claims denied by Kyiv. 3:45 a.m.: Russia says its missile barrage on Odessa - a Ukrainian port central to a landmark grain export deal - has destroyed Western-supplied weapons.The attack sparked an outcry from Ukraine's allieshttps://t.co/VVTUxZS58j pic.twitter.com/DxncmmnB7s 3:05 a.m.: Tens of thousands of people who evacuated from Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region are returning to homes close to the front line because they can’t afford to live in safer places. They are risking their lives. One woman was killed by a missile outside her home just two days after returning. Ukrainian authorities are frustrated as some civilians remain in the path of war, but the region’s residents are frustrated, too. Some described feeling unwelcome as Russian speakers among Ukrainian speakers in some parts of the country. But more often, the problem is the lack of money to start anew. The mayor’s office in one small Donetsk city estimates that 70% of evacuated residents have come back. The Associated Press has the story. Tens of thousands of people who evacuated from Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region are returning to homes close to the front line because they can’t afford to live in safer places where some have also been made to feel unwelcome. They are risking their lives. https://t.co/7xsDns25lq 2 a.m.: Germany is back on the path of decent gas injection levels and the task is now to reach its target of 75% gas storage levels by September 1, the head of the country’s network regulator said on Twitter on Monday, Reuters reported. Klaus Mueller, head of the Bundesnetzagentur regulator, added that gas importer Uniper had also ended withdrawals from storage. 1:20 a.m.: Inconclusive fighting has continued in both Donbas and Kherson regions in eastern Ukraine, British military intelligence said on Monday. Russian commanders continue to face a dilemma — whether to resource Russia’s offensive in the east, or to bolster the defense in the west, Britain's defense ministry said on Twitter. The ministry added in its regular bulletin that on July 18, the British intelligence identified a Russian military vehicle refit and refurbishment facility near Barvinok, in Russia's Belgorod Oblast, which is 10 kilometers (6.21 miles) from the Ukrainian border. “At least 300 damaged vehicles were present, including main battle tanks, armored personnel carriers, and general support trucks,” the update added. Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 25 July 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/0J6jYm2jFf🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/zf26RycMYw  1 a.m.: Chef Jose Andres’ World Central Kitchen operating in eastern Ukraine. It’s now 5 months since Russia began its brutal invasion of Ukraine. @natemook is in the frontline city of Bakhmut in eastern Ukraine delivering 100s of food kits to our humanitarian hub. Bakhmut is under constant attack, so firefighters help us distribute to families still here. pic.twitter.com/lSloOMdhKZ  12:05 a.m.: A new postage stamp from Ukraine. Ukrposhta to put the stamp "Good evening, we are from Ukraine" on sale on 28 JulyThere will be 5 million copies of this postal stamp featuring a Ukrainian tractor towing the Russian tank.https://t.co/zGgus2htRl pic.twitter.com/K17RM0sQwm  Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse, The Associated Press and Reuters.