"Succession" received a leading 25 Emmy nominations Tuesday, but the satirical drama about the rich and ruthless has a landmark rival in "Squid Game," the first non-English language series to vie for television's top honor.

"Squid Game," a South Korea-set drama in which the poor are fodder for brutal games, earned a best drama nomination and 13 other bids for September's Emmy Awards. "Succession" captured the best drama trophy and eight other awards when it last vied for Emmys, in 2020. "Ted Lasso" was the top comedy series nominee with 20 bids and has the chance to earn its second consecutive best comedy trophy, as with academy voters proved undeterred by its sophomore season turn to the emotional dark side.

Other top nominees included the tropical resort-set anthology dramedy "The White Lotus," which also received 20 nominations; the comedies "Hacks" and "Only Murders in the Building" with 17 bids each, and teenage dysfunction drama "Euphoria." Its star, Zendaya, was crowned best actress in 2020 was nominated again.

The nominees for best drama series are: "Better Call Saul"; "Euphoria"; "Ozark"; "Severance"; "Squid Game"; "Stranger Things"; "Succession"; "Yellowjackets."

The nominees for best comedy series are: "Abbott Elementary"; "Barry"; "Curb Your Enthusiasm"; "Hacks"; "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel"; "Only Murders in the Building"; "Ted Lasso" and "What We Do in the Shadows." The nominees for best comedy series actress are: Rachel Brosnahan, "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel"; Quinta Brunson, "Abbott Elementary"; Kaley Cuoco, "The Flight Attendant"; Elle Fanning, "The Great"; Issa Rae, "Insecure"; Jean Smart, "Hacks."

The nominees for actor in a comedy series are: Donald Glover, "Atlanta"; Bill Hader, "Barry"; Bill Hader, "Barry"; Nicholas Holt, "The Great"; Jason Sudeikis, "Ted Lasso" Steve Martin, "Only Murders in the Building"; Martin Short, "Only Murders in the Building."

The nominees for drama series actor are: Jason Bateman, "Ozark"; Brian Cox, "Succession"; Lee Jung-jae, "Squid Game"; Bob Odenkirk, "Better Call Saul"; Adam Scott, "Severance" and Jeremy Strong, "Succession."

The best drama series actress nominees are: Jodie Comer, "Killing Eve"; Laura Linney, "Ozark"; Melanie Lynskey, "Yellowjackets"; Sandra Oh, "Killing Eve"; Reese Witherspoon, "The Morning Show" and Zendaya, "Euphoria." The limited series nominees are: "Dopesick"; "The Dropout"; "Inventing Anna"; "The White Lotus"; "Pam & Tommy."

The nominees for variety talk series are: "The Daily Show with Trevor Noah"; "Jimmy Kimmel Live"; "Last Week Tonight with John Oliver"; "Late Night with Seth Meyers" and "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert."

Television Academy President Frank Scherma kicked off the nomination announcement by saying that a record number of shows had been submitted, which reflects that series production was an all-time high after being drastically reduced during the pandemic.

The Emmys once were dominated by broadcast networks and then cable, with the rise of streaming services changing the balance of power and perhaps the awards themselves. Netflix's "Squid Game" joining the Emmy mix is the result of streaming's global marketplace focus.

"The Crown," which dominated the 2021 drama awards, wasn't televised within the eligibility period and is sitting this year out.

The Emmy ceremony is set for Sept. 12 and will air on NBC, with a host yet to be announced.