For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT. 11:30 a.m.: The European Union's executive, the European Commission, formally proposed on Friday new sanctions on Russia, including a new import ban on Russian gold. EU governments must still sign off on the measures, expected as early as next week, Reuters reported. 10:31 a.m.: Ukraine is hurrying to clinch a deal with Russia, Turkey and the United Nations next week to export grain via its Black Sea ports, a senior Ukrainian official source said on Friday, Reuters reported. 10:20 a.m.: The head of the company now running the former McDonald's Corp chain of restaurants in Russia told RBC TV that producers of French fries are refusing to supply to the country and warned that attempts to increase domestic processing are fraught with difficulties, Reuters reported. McDonald's quit Russia after a Western backlash against Moscow's military campaign in Ukraine. 9:44 a.m.: Russian forces pounded other sites in a relentless push to wrest territory from Ukraine and try to soften the unbending morale of its leaders, civilians and troops as the war nears the five-month mark, according to The Associated Press. 9:43 a.m.:  Rescue teams with sniffer dogs combed through the debris Friday in a central Ukrainian city looking for people still missing after a Russian missile strike a day earlier killed at least 23 people and wounded over 100 others, The Associated Press reported. 5:43 a.m.: Hungarian Prime Minister Victor Orban said the European Union has "shot itself in the lungs" with its sanctions against Russia, Al Jazeera reported. In an interview on public radio, Orban said, "Initially, I thought we had only shot ourselves in the foot, but now it is clear that the European economy has shot itself in the lungs, and it is gasping for air," Al Jazeera reported. 5:04 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. ministry of defense said Russian and pro-Russian Luhansk People's Republic separatist forces claim to have entered the outskirts of Siversk. The update notes this has not been confirmed, and that once Siversk is secured, Bakhmut is likely to be the next objective. 4:13 a.m.: The International Skating Union dropped Russia as host of a Grant Prix of Figure Skating event, Al Jazeera reported. The city of Espoo, Finland, will hold the event instead. It's set for Nov. 25-27. 3:13 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest assessment of the Ukraine conflict that Russia continues to strike Vinnytsia, Kharkiv City, and Mykolaiv City. It's also trying to advance on Siversk and attacking Bakhmut and Slovyansk. 1:06 a.m.: The United States said Thursday that it would not bar the sale of farm equipment to Russia, again denying Moscow's allegations that Western sanctions — not its invasion of Ukraine — are causing the global food crisis, Agence France-Presse reported. The Treasury Department, in a legal form on sanctions exemptions, said it would not stop US transactions related to the production, sale or transport of agricultural equipment. In line with previous rules set after the Feb. 24 invasion, the Treasury Department also said it was not prohibiting agricultural commodities such as fertilizer as well as medical devices and COVID-19 tests. 12:02 a.m.: Two months after falling to Russian troops, the eastern Ukrainian town of Popasna, once home to 20,000, has turned into a ghost town with little sign of life, Reuters reports. Ukrainian troops retreated from Popasna in May after Russian forces launched an offensive along most of Ukraine's eastern flank, with intense attacks and shelling around the town in the Luhansk region. A Reuters reporter visited Popasna on Thursday and found the town deserted, with nearly all apartment buildings either destroyed or heavily damaged. Barren streets bore no sign of people or animals. A former resident, Vladimir Odarchenko, stood inside his damaged home and surveyed the debris strewn across the floor. "I have no idea what I'm going to do. Where to live? I don't know," he told Reuters. Some information in this report came from Reuters and Agence France-Presse.