For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT. 6:25 a.m.: Ukrainian officials said Russian missiles struck the central Ukrainian city of Vinnytsia on Thursday, killing at least 12 people and wounding 25 others. Police said three missiles hit an office building in the center of the city and damaged residential buildings in the area. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the dead included a child. “Every day Russia is destroying the civilian population, killing Ukrainian children, directing missiles at civilian objects where there is no military (targets). What is it if not an open act of terrorism?” Zelenskyy wrote on the Telegram messaging app. Russia has denied targeting civilian targets. 5:50 a.m.: The Kyiv Independent shared, via Telegram, that a dozen people have died and 25 have been injured after a Russian missile struck Vinnytsia, a city in west-central Ukraine. The announcement said a child was among those killed. "Every day, Russia kills civilians, kills Ukrainian children, carries out missile attacks on civilian facilities where there is no military target," said Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy via social media, according to Agence France-Presse. "What is this if not an open act of terrorism?" 5:15 a.m.: U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said Thursday that Russia's war in Ukraine has had negative effects all over the world, as evidenced by higher energy prices and growing food insecurity, said Reuters. Yellen’s comments came during a news conference held on the Indonesian island of Bali, where finance leaders of G20 countries – including Russia – are meeting. 4:30 a.m.:  3:15 p.m.:  2:20 a.m.: Russian-designated mayor Konstantin Ivaschenko said water supplies will resume this month in the Russian-held Ukrainian city of Mariupol, Reuters reported citing Russia’s state news agency TASS. Ivaschenko, whose appointment to the post has not been recognized by Ukraine, added in Wednesday’s comments that authorities plan to resume operation of the city’s passenger port that links to Russia’s Rostov-on-Don and Black Sea cities. 2:05 a.m.: The Guardian reports that a third American is now being held captive by pro-Russian separatists. According to The Guardian, Suedi Murekezi was arrested last month in the Russian-occupied port city of Kherson in southern Ukraine. The 35-year-old had been living there for more than two years, said his brother Sele Murekezi. He had visited Ukraine for business. 1:05 a.m. North Korea said Thursday it has sent word to the leaders of the Russian-backed separatist regions in eastern Ukraine – Donetsk and Luhansk – of its willingness to develop diplomatic relations, reports The Associated Press. North Korea, along with Russia and Syria, is one of the few nations to recognize the independence of the provinces, which separatists have controlled since 2014. 12:05 a.m.:  Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.