For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 10:55 a.m.: Railway infrastructure in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv was hit by multiple missile strikes Saturday but no casualties were reported. The strike damaged railway tracks and knocked down high voltage power lines, reports Reuters. “After Russian rockets hit at four in the morning, the power grid and three high voltage lines powering traffic lights and substation are damaged,“ Pavlo Svistelnikov, manager of the regional power grid, told Reuters. Russian forces have been pounding the city for over a week killing civilians, and hitting apartment buildings and schools, regional authorities said. 9:15 a.m.: The United Nations says millions of Ukrainians are suffering from acute shortages of food, water, shelter and other basic needs. U.N. agencies report problems getting relief supplies to some of the hardest hit places of the war such as Kherson and Mariupol, cities that have been pummeled into rubble by Russian airstrikes. Nearly 16 million people in Ukraine need humanitarian assistance and protection, said U.N. humanitarian coordinator for Ukraine, Osnat Lubrani. 8:40 a.m.: Ukrainian separatists backed by Russia Saturday said they had "completely" encircled the key city of Lysychansk in the eastern Lugansk region, reports Agence France-Presse. “Today the Lugansk popular militia and Russian forces occupied the last strategic heights, which allows us to confirm that Lysychansk is completely encircled,” Andrei Marotchko, a spokesman for the separatist forces, told the TASS news agency. Capturing the city would allow the Russians to push deeper into the wider eastern region of the Donbas, which has become the focus of their offensive since failing to capture Kyiv after launching their military operation in Ukraine in late February. 4:38 a.m.: The New York Times reported that the Ukrainian nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia is once again in contact with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the U.N. watchdog. Russia had severed mobile services in the region, the Times said, interrupting communications. 3:54 a.m.: In its most recent assessment of the Ukraine conflict, U.S. think tank The Institute for the Study of War said Russian forces are focusing on encircling Lysychansk. Russia also continued shelling north of Kharkiv City and is regrouping north of Slovyansk. Additionally, the assessment said, Russia is still trying to get more recruits for its military campaign in Ukraine, including using foreign combat reserves. 2:22 a.m.: Russia's ambassador to Bulgaria said on Friday she would ask Moscow to close its embassy in the Balkan country after her appeal for Sofia to reverse what she called an unprecedented hostile step to expel 70 Russian diplomatic staff was ignored. In a statement addressed to the Bulgarian people, the ambassador, Eleonora Mitrofanova, said the closure of the Russian embassy would inevitably lead to the closure of Bulgaria's embassy in Moscow, too. 1:01 a.m.: Ukraine's nuclear power operator said on Friday it had re-established its connection to surveillance systems at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, Europe's largest, which is occupied by Russian forces. The International Atomic Energy Agency, the U.N.'s atomic watchdog, has said it wants to inspect the plant in southern Ukraine urgently, but Ukrainian authorities oppose any such visit while Russian forces remain in control. It was the second time communications had been lost with the plant, made up of six reactors. Ukraine state Energoatom agency said on its Telegram channel that it had restored the connection, which, it said, have been lost "due to the cutting off by the occupiers in Enerhodar of all Ukrainian mobile operators, including Vodavone, with which the (IAEA) has a contract for data transmission." 12:02 a.m.: As Russia's military continues to pound Ukraine, Western nations have responded in part by targeting Russia's defense industry with sanctions. The latest round came on Tuesday, when the United States issued new sanctions on some arms makers and executives at the heart of what it dubbed Russian President Vladimir Putin's "war machine." But a Reuters examination of companies, executives and investors underpinning Russia's defense sector shows a sizable number of players have yet to pay a price: Nearly three dozen leaders of Russian weapons firms and at least 14 defense companies have not been sanctioned by the United States, the European Union or the United Kingdom. In addition, sanctions on Russia's arms makers and tycoons have been applied inconsistently by these NATO allies, with some governments levying penalties and others not, the Reuters review showed. Some information in this report came from Reuters.