U.S. President Joe Biden said Friday alongside Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank he would continue to support working toward a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, while acknowledging it "can seem so far away." "The Palestinian people are hurting now," he said. "You can just feel it. Your grief and frustration. In the United States, we can feel it." Biden underscored the need to restart direct negotiations that could lead to a contiguous Palestinian state alongside the state of Israel, with secure and agreed upon borders where each can live in "peace and security." The U.S. president said the "Palestinian people deserve a state of their own that's independent, sovereign, viable and contiguous. Two states for two peoples, both of whom have deep and ancient roots in this land, living side by side in peace and security." Abbas said it is time to "turn the page on the Israeli occupation on our land." He also said Israel "cannot continue to act as a state above law." Vowing the U.S. would continue to work toward the goal of a fair settlement, Biden announced $316 million in financial aid to the Palestinians during his visit. Part of the U.S. assistance includes a $100 million aid package for medical institutions in the area as part of a multiyear commitment aimed at helping Palestinian health services. "Even if the ground is not ripe at this moment to restart negotiations, the United States and my administration will not give up on bringing the Palestinians and the Israelis, both sides, closer together," he said. "These hospitals are the backbone of the Palestinian healthcare system," he said, praising the work of nurses and recounting his own family's experience with the need for emergency medical care. Other planned announcements included those focusing on Palestinian economic development, such as developing 4G wireless networks in Gaza and the West Bank. Biden heads next to Saudi Arabia. Just hours before his arrival, Saudi Arabia announced late Thursday that it was opening its airspace to "all carriers," which ends the country's ban on flights to and from Israel. On Thursday, Biden met with Israeli caretaker Prime Minister Yair Lapid. After their meeting, the two leaders held a joint news conference to share their agreement that they would not allow Iran to become a nuclear power. They could not agree, however, on the most effective means of preventing Iran's nuclear development. "I continue to believe that diplomacy is the best way to achieve this outcome," Biden said. "The only thing that will stop Iran," said Lapid, "is knowing that if they continue to develop their nuclear program the free world will use force." Israel was a major critic of the international agreement signed in 2015 between Iran and a group of world powers that restricted Iran's nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief. Biden served as U.S. vice president when the agreement was signed, and it was his predecessor, former President Donald Trump, who withdrew the United States from the deal in 2018. There have been recent efforts to try to bring both the U.S. and Iran back to the agreement, including indirect talks in Vienna.