For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT. 8:35 a.m.: Ukraine tech expatriates use digital networks to help Ukraine resist the Russian invasion, the Financial Times reports. 8:40 a.m.: According to the Kyiv Independent, Russia has fully or partially destroyed at least 183 religious sites, churches, mosques, synagogues in 14 regions of Ukraine, the Kyiv Independent reports. 8:10 a.m.: Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov was in Cairo for talks with Egyptian officials as his country seeks to rally support for Moscow and to break diplomatic isolation and sanctions by the West over its invasion of Ukraine. The first leg of his Africa trip that will also include stops in Ethiopia, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Associated Press reports. 8:15 a.m.: Ukraine pressed ahead on Sunday with efforts to restart grain exports from its Black Sea ports under a deal aimed at easing global food shortages but warned deliveries would suffer if Russia's strike on Odesa was a sign of more to come. President Volodymyr Zelenskiy denounced Russia’s strike on Odessa as "barbarism" that showed Moscow could not be trusted to implement a deal struck just one day earlier with Turkish and United Nations mediation. 5:35 a.m.: The latest Ukraine assessment from The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said Ukrainian forces are likely preparing to launch, or have already launched, a counteroffensive in Kherson Oblast. Russian forces, meanwhile, conducted limited reconnaissance operations east of Bakhmut and continued limited ground attacks northwest of Slovyansk, east of Siversk, and south of Bakhmut. 4:52 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and his wife, Olena Zelenska, on Saturday opened the Second Summit of First Ladies and Gentlemen in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv. The summit convened with virtual attendees from around the world seeking to help with the reconstruction effort in Ukraine when the war with Russia ends. During the summit, Zelenskyy expressed his hope for peace in Ukraine. 3:51 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said small-scale Russian offensive action remains focused on the Bakhmut axis in the Donbas, but it is making minimal progress. 2:55 a.m.: The New York Times reported that Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will try to blame the U.S. and its allies for food shortages when he's in Africa on Sunday. Lavrov will visit Egypt, Ethiopia, Uganda and the Republic of Congo, the Times reported, and he aims to make the case that Russia is Africa's ally. 1:20 a.m.: Six months after Russia invaded Ukraine there is no sign of the war coming to an end. Among the refugees are many Jewish families, some who are now being given sanctuary at a new center with a kosher kitchen, The Associated Press reports. 12:02 a.m.: Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has called on the United States and Russia to hold peace talks to end the war in Ukraine, adding that Kyiv cannot win against Moscow’s larger force. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press.