For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT. 5 a.m.: U.S. lawmakers are set to hear Wednesday from Ukrainian first lady Olena Zelenska as she delivers remarks on Capitol Hill. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said ahead of the address that Zelenska would be speaking on behalf of all Ukrainian mothers and women. “And I really believe that it will be heard by those on whom decision-making in the U.S. depends,” the president said. U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi encouraged all members of the House and Senate to attend, saying it would be an “important and timely opportunity to hear directly from First Lady Zelenska, to learn more about the terrible toll of the Russian invasion and to express our gratitude to the people of Ukraine for their fight for Democracy.” 4 a.m.: The U.N.'s aviation agency on Tuesday for the first time blamed senior Belarus officials for a hoax last year that grounded a Ryanair flight that led to the arrest of a dissident reporter, Reuters reported. The plane was on its way from Athens to Vilnius in May 2021 when Belarus controllers ordered it to land in Minsk, citing a bomb threat. Once it was on the ground, Belarus journalist Roman Protasevich was detained along with his then-girlfriend. The International Civil Aviation Organization, which had previously said it did not know who was behind the hoax, condemned Minsk for "committing an act of unlawful interference" which contravened aviation rules. 3:15 a.m.: Ukraine intends to postpone repayment of its Eurobonds and payments of interest on them for 24 months from August 1, Reuters reported citing a government resolution published on Wednesday. The government, which is trying to deal with the impact of Russia's February 24 invasion, instructed the finance ministry to hold negotiations with creditors on deferring payments by August15 and promised additional interest on postponed payments. The government also plans to postpone payment on the GDP-linked warrants to August 2024 from May 2023, it said. 2:45 a.m.: In coming days, the United States will announce a new weapons package for Ukraine as it engages Russia in fierce battles in eastern Ukraine, John Kirby, the chief National Security Council spokesman, told a White House news briefing. It will be the 16th such drawdown of money approved by Congress and allocated under presidential authority, he said, according to Reuters. The package is expected to include U.S. mobile rocket launchers, known as HIMARS, and rounds for Multiple Launch Rocket Systems as well as artillery munitions. The United States has provided $8 billion in security assistance since the war began, including $2.2 billion in the last month. 2 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday said Moscow did not see any desire from Ukraine to fulfill the terms of what he described as a preliminary peace deal agreed to in March, Reuters reported. Putin, speaking to reporters in televised comments after a visit to Iran, said Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates were offering to mediate between Russia and Ukraine, which Moscow's forces invaded in late February. There was no immediate response from the Ukrainian government to Putin's remarks in the early hours of Wednesday. Putin, asked about a possible meeting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said Kyiv had not stuck to the terms of a preliminary peace deal he said had been "practically achieved" in March, without elaborating. "The final result of course... depends on the willingness of the contracting parties to implement the agreements that were reached. Today we see the powers in Kyiv have no such desire." Negotiations took place in March, with both sides making proposals but without a breakthrough. At the time, Zelenskiy said only a concrete result from the talks could be trusted. Putin met Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran on Tuesday, deepening ties between the two countries who are both under Western sanctions. 1:20 a.m.: The U.S. Department of Justice is seeking broader authority from Congress to seize Russian oligarchs' assets to put pressure on Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine, said a top prosecutor, according to Reuters. In testimony to the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Andrew Adams, who leads the department's KleptoCapture task force, said Congress should let prosecutors seek forfeitures of assets used to evade U.S. sanctions, not just proceeds of sanctions evasions. The task force was launched in March to enhance the United States' ability to punish wealthy Russians whom Washington accuses of enabling Russian President Vladimir Putin to invade Ukraine. Prosecutors have since won warrants to seize two yachts belonging to sanctioned Russians and planes owned by billionaire Roman Abramovich, among other assets. 1:05 a.m.: Russia's offensive in Ukraine's Donbas region continues to make minimal gains as Ukrainian forces hold the line, British military intelligence said on Wednesday. The Antonovskiy bridge over the Dnieper River that was struck by Ukrainian forces is probably still usable, Britain's defense ministry said on Twitter. "It is highly likely that the bridge remains usable — but it is a key vulnerability for Russian Forces," the ministry added in the regular bulletin. Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 20 July 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/nx8fNH0vaD🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/9q2Q3h3FrA  12:10 a.m.: Russia is preparing to annex more Ukrainian territory and is installing illegitimate proxy officials in areas it now controls in the east, the White House said on Tuesday. Unveiling what he said was U.S. intelligence, John Kirby, the chief National Security Council spokesman, told a White House news briefing that the Russians are preparing to install proxy officials, establish the ruble as the default currency and force residents to apply for citizenship. "We have information today, including from downgraded intelligence that we're able to share with you, about how Russia is laying the groundwork to annex Ukrainian territory that it controls in direct violation of Ukraine's sovereignty," Kirby said, Reuters reported. It is the same tactic used in 2014 when Russia announced its annexation of Crimea after taking control of it from Ukraine, Kirby said. The international community considers Crimea's annexation illegitimate. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.