For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 7:25 a.m.: Russian missiles struck a nine-story apartment building and a resort facility near Ukraine's Black Sea port of Odesa killing at least 17 people and wounding dozens, reports Ukrainian military officials. Footage released by the State Emergency Services of Ukraine showed the aftermath of the missile strike as emergency services searched through debris of the destroyed apartment building. 5:39 a.m.: U.S. basketball star Brittney Griner is expected to appear in a Russian courtroom today to face drug charges, The New York Times reported. Griner has been in Russian custody since February. Russian officials say they discovered vape cartridges with traces of hashish oil in her luggage, the Times reported. She'd been in Russia to play for a Russian professional basketball team. If convicted of drug charges, she could get 10 years in a penal colony. 5:06 a.m.: Al Jazeera reported that Russian forces have captured part of Ukraine's Lyschansk oil refinery. Serhiy Haidai wrote on Telegram that Russian troops were holding the northwestern and southeastern sections of the plant, Al Jazeera said. 4:12 a.m.: A leading economic expert in Russia was detained Thursday on embezzlement charges as part of a high-profile case that some observers saw as linked to purges targeting members of the country's liberal elite, The Associated Press reported. Investigators accused Vladimir Mau, the rector of the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration, of embezzling funds from the institution, a leading school for public servants. Mau denied the charges. Since the early 1990s, Mau has served as a senior economic adviser to the Russian government. He received high state awards from President Vladimir Putin in 2012 and 2017. Kremlin critics have described the arrests as part of a widening government crackdown on independent voices amid the military action in Ukraine. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov refused to comment on Mau's detention. 3:09 a.m.: The U.K. defense ministry's latest intelligence update said Russia's withdrawal from Snake Island was not the "gesture of good will" it claimed. Rather, the update said, the area's isolation and increasing vulnerability to Ukrainian strikes drove the move. The update also said that intense fighting will probably continue for the area around the Lyschansk oil refinery. 2:10 a.m.: U.S. think tank The Institute of the Study of War, in its latest assessment of the conflict in Ukraine, said that Russia has made limited gains within the Lysychansk Oil Refinery and around Lysychansk. Russia is continuing operations near Slovyansk and Bakhmut, the assessment said, and is aiming to further economically integrate occupied areas. 1:08 a.m.: European power grid operators are ready to implement immediately a long-term plan to bring the Baltic states, which rely on the Russian grid, into the European Union system in the event Moscow cuts them off, sources told Reuters. Concern about depending on Russia for any form of energy has mounted across Europe because of reductions in Russian gas supplies to some countries following Moscow's invasion of Ukraine. The Baltic States, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, have a long-standing plan to become part of the European decentralized network of power grids by 2025. 12:02 a.m.: Ukrainian doubles specialist Denys Molchanov says he could return to his homeland to help with the war effort, admitting he is finding it tough to focus on tennis as the conflict rages on, Agence France-Presse reported. Molchanov, who teamed up with Russian-born Andrey Golubev in the Wimbledon men's doubles, is based in Zagreb with his wife and daughter, who fled Ukraine hours after Russia's invasion in late February. "It's always in my mind," he said following his first-round defeat to Pedro Martinez and John-Patrick Smith at the All England Club. "It's tough to play in these conditions when we have (the war) right now in our country and it's not about tennis right now." Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse and Reuters.