The World Food Program said nearly half of Haiti’s population of 11.4 million is facing hunger, due to gang violence and soaring food costs.

WFP officials warn Haiti’s food crisis is worsening because gang violence in the capital, Port-au-Prince, and rising food prices are making food both unavailable and unaffordable.

Speaking from Port-au-Prince, WFP country director in Haiti Jean-Martin Bauer said gang violence is having a bad impact on markets, trade and livelihoods. He said organized crime groups have cut off the city from the rest of the country, increasing hunger throughout.

“I am concerned that the situation is spiraling out of control already,” Bauer said. “Large parts of Port-au-Prince are controlled by gangs. The data we have show that the situation over the past 90 days has gotten worse.And you are at a base line where Haiti is a very vulnerable place where you already had 1 million people in the city who were acutely food insecure.”

Bauer said roads from Port-au-Prince to the south and east were cut off a year ago and gang violence is making it too dangerous for humanitarian agencies to send aid to the northern part of the country by road.

He said the only safe ways in and out of the city are by sea or by air. He said the volatile security situation and surging food prices are putting lifesaving relief out of reach for many vulnerable Haitians.

“Haiti is not a country that is linked commercially to Ukraine,” he said. “It is not like the Middle East or North Africa, where Ukraine is the main supplier. But obviously, Haiti is very much affected. Prices of food all over the world have increased and, therefore, Haiti is facing a much higher food import bill.”

He said inflation has risen by almost 27 percent, while the price of food has increased by 52 percent.

Bauer said the WFP would like to scale up its humanitarian operation from 1.3 million people to 1.7 million. However, he said his agency urgently needs $39 million to provide lifesaving aid for destitute people over the next six months.