For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT:  12:14 p.m.: Military delegations from Russia, Ukraine, and Turkey will meet with UN representatives to discuss the safe export of Ukrainian grain, which has become disrupted because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, RFE/RL reported. The meeting will take place on July 13 in Istanbul, Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar said on July 12. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on July 11 discussed Ukrainian grain exports in separate phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Ukraine and its allies have pushed for the reopening of Ukraine's Black Sea ports, which Kyiv says are shut because of a Russian blockade. 10:47 a.m.: The U.N. human rights office (OHCHR) said on Tuesday that more than 5,000 civilians had been killed in Ukraine since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, adding that the real toll was likely much higher, Reuters reported. OHCHR, which has dozens of human rights monitors in the country, said in its weekly update that 5,024 people had been killed and 6,520 injured. 10:00 a.m. Lego is closing its business in Russia indefinitely and laying off its 90 Moscow-based employees, owing to "extensive disruption" in the country, the Danish toymaker said on Tuesday, Reuters reported. Lego has terminated its contract with franchisee Inventive Retail Group (IRG) which owned and operated 81 stores on Lego's behalf. IRG, which also operated shops in Russia for Western brands such as Nike and Samsung, said earlier on Tuesday that the contract with Lego had been terminated. Companies including Nike and Cisco have announced their departures from Russia in recent weeks as the pace of Western firms leaving accelerates after Russia sent troops into Ukraine in February. 9:08 a.m.: European Union member states have so far frozen Russian assets worth $13.8 billion since Russia began its invasion of Ukraine, EU Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders has said, according to RFE/RL. "For the moment, we have frozen -- coming from oligarchs and other entities -- 13.8 billion euros [$13.8 billion], so it's quite huge," Reynders told reporters in Prague on July 12 ahead of an informal meeting of EU justice ministers. "But I must say that a very large part of it, more than 12 billion...is coming from five member states," he added. He did not specify the five countries, but he urged other EU members to step up efforts to identify and freeze assets under their jurisdictions. 7:59 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin will visit Iran next week, the Kremlin said Tuesday, a day after the U.S. warned that Tehran could provide Moscow with drones for its action in Ukraine, the Associated Press reported. During a trip to Tehran next Tuesday, Putin will attend a trilateral meeting with the leaders of Iran and Turkey, the so-called Astana format of meetings for Syria-related talks, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. While in Tehran Peskov said Putin will also have a separate meeting with visiting Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Erdogan had earlier helped mediate talks between Russian and Ukrainian representatives in Istanbul, Turkey. 6:30 a.m.: Ukrainian and Russian officials gave differing accounts Tuesday of a Ukrainian attack in the Kherson region in southern Ukraine. According to the Ukrainian side, a long-range rocket struck a Russian ammunition depot in Nova Kakhovka, killing 52 Russian troops. Russia said the Ukrainian strike instead hit civilian infrastructure. 6 a.m.: A Moscow court fined U.S. tech giant Apple million roubles ($33,900) on Tuesday for allegedly refusing to store the data of Russian citizens on Russian territory, the Interfax news agency reported. Moscow has clashed with Big Tech over content, censorship, data and local representation in a simmering dispute that has erupted into a full-on battle since Russia sent its armed forces into Ukraine on February 24, Reuters reported. Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 5:30 a.m.: #BREAKING Putin to travel to Tehran for Raisi-Erdogan summit on July 19: Kremlin pic.twitter.com/IGvQGXkt1K  5:15 a.m.: Russian foreign ministry said a fresh round of talks between Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and the United Nations over grain exports from Ukraine will take place on Wednesday in Istanbul, Reuters reported citing Interfax news agency. Ukraine is a key agricultural exporter and its inability to ship vital grain supplies has caused a surge in food prices, aggravating concerns about a global food crisis. 4 a.m.: Interfax on Tuesday quoted a separatist official as saying decisions on the appeals of British and Moroccan fighters sentenced to death by the Russian-backed Donetsk People’s Republic in eastern Ukraine will be taken within a month, Reuters reported. Two Britons and one Moroccan citizen captured fighting with the Ukrainian army were sentenced to death as mercenaries by a Russian-backed separatist court last month. All three have appealed their sentences. Ukraine and Western countries have said that the men are prisoners of war, entitled to protection under the Geneva Conventions. 3:30 a.m.: The head of the International Energy Agency said on Tuesday the G-7 proposal to impose a price cap on Russian oil should include refined products as well, Reuters reported. The Group of Seven rich nations are considering imposing a price cap on Russian oil in an effort to keep oil flowing and curb inflation, while still limiting revenue to Moscow for the war on Ukraine that it calls a "special military operation." "My hope is that the proposal, which is important to minimize the effect on the economies around the world, gets buy-in from several countries," IEA Executive Director Fatih Birol told Reuters in an interview on the sidelines of the Sydney Energy Forum. "And if it is pursued, it is not only focused on crude oil, as refined products are also an important challenge for the economies and will be more of a challenge in the next months to come," he said. Prices of refined products, such as gasoline and diesel, have soared even more than crude oil in the wake of the loss of Russian supply, because of a global refinery capacity crunch following the closure of several plants around the world. 3 a.m.: As a Russian offensive intensifies in eastern Ukraine, authorities there are urging residents to evacuate for other, safer cities and towns in the west of the country. And yet, there are still people who refuse to leave. Many of them are pensioners living alone. Some say they don't earn enough money to support themselves away from home. Others have more complex reasons, including a dislike of the current government in Kyiv or believing that life under a Russian flag won't be much different than it is now. Donetsk Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko has urged residents to evacuate, saying it would allow the Ukrainian army to better defend towns. He added that about 80% of the region had left by Monday. The Associated Press has the story. 2 a.m.: In its battleground report, the U.K. ministry of defense said Tuesday that Russia continues to make "small incremental territorial gains in Donetsk oblast with Russia claiming to have seized control of the town of Hryhorivka." Russia also continued its "assault along the E-40 main supply route towards the cities of Slovyansk and Kramatorsk." Personnel shortage might force Russia to "turn to non-traditional recruitment," the ministry said. That means recruiting from Russian prisons for the Wagner Private Military Company, the ministry added. Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 12 July 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/vzAuk7j6hs🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/KhsMlL4GW0  1:15 a.m.: Ukraine expects a fresh assault by Russian ground forces, following widespread shelling which killed more than 30 people, as Kyiv’s Western allies brace for a worsening of the global energy crisis if Russia cuts its supply of oil and gas, Reuters reported. Ukraine’s general staff said the shelling across the country amounted to preparations for an intensification of hostilities as Russia seeks to seize Donetsk province, and control the whole of Ukraine’s Donbas industrial heartland. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said Russia had carried out 34 air strikes since Saturday, one hit a five-story apartment killing 31 people and trapping dozens. Moscow denies targeting civilians but many Ukrainian cities, towns and villages have been left in ruins. And the human cost of Russia's invasion, Europe’s biggest conflict since World War Two and now in its fifth month, mounts. Russia said a Ukrainian attack on the Russian-held town of Nova Kakhovka in Kherson region left an unknown number of casualties. 12:30 a.m.: A celebrated Ukrainian medic who was held captive by Russian forces said she thinks about the prisoners she left behind constantly. Yuliia Paievska, who is better known as Taira, was freed on June 17. She was captured on March 16 in the besieged city of Mariupol, a day after a team of journalists with The Associated Press smuggled out a data card on which she’d recorded 256 gigabytes of bodycam footage showing her medical team’s desperate efforts to save wounded civilians and troops, including Russian soldiers. Taira credits the release of the video by AP with helping win her freedom. Taira is trying now to regain her health and plans to write a sort of self-help book about enduring captivity. Ukrainian medic Yuliia Paievska was captured by Russian forces a day after @AP journalists left Mariupol with 256 gigabytes of footage she captured. Now free, she says that video helped win her release.“Because of you, I could leave this hell,” she said. https://t.co/9GQ9Q09v3v pic.twitter.com/0LVpTjqziU  12:01 a.m.: The global price of oil could surge by 40% to around $140 per barrel if a proposed price cap on Russian oil is not adopted, along with sanction exemptions that would allow shipments below that price, Reuters reported citing a senior U.S. Treasury official said on Tuesday. U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen will discuss implementation of the proposed oil price cap with Japanese Finance Minister Shunichi Suzuki when they meet later on Tuesday, the official said. The goal was to set the price at a level that covered Russia’s margin cost of production, so Moscow is incentivized to continue exporting oil, but not high enough to allow it to fund its war against Ukraine, the official said. Japanese officials had expressed concern about the price cap being set too low, but had not rejected a potential price range of $40 to $60 per barrel outright, the official said. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.