For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 7:59 a.m.: ⚡️Foreign Ministers of Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia visit Kyiv. Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said the trip was “about the rebuilding, restoration and the EU candidate status for Ukraine.” 7:56 a.m.: A meeting of European Union foreign ministers will be held next week should countries from the bloc fail to reach an agreement over an oil embargo against Russia by the weekend, the EU’s foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said on Friday, according to Reuters. The European Commission is proposing changes to its planned embargo on Russian oil in a bid to win over reluctant states, including Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of an event in Florence, Borrell reiterated he had faith in reaching “a solution that is shared, as not all countries are in the same situation,” adding a deal had to be found quickly.

7:42 a.m.: ⚡️Russia launches attack on Zaporizhzhia Oblast with artillery, airstrikes. Russian troops have attacked Huliaipole and Orikhiv, towns in Zaporizhzhia Oblast, with artillery and airstrikes, Zaporizhzhia Military Administration reported on May 6. 7:33 a.m.: German Chancellor Olaf Scholz will take part in a G7 virtual discussion on Sunday on the situation in Ukraine that will be attended by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, a German government spokesperson said, according to Reuters. Scholz will also give a televised address to the German people on the evening of May 8, which marks the anniversary of the end of World War Two, the spokesperson added. The date takes on special meaning this year as two countries that were once victims of Nazi Germany are now at war, added the spokesperson, referring to Ukraine and Russia.

7:27 a.m.: More civilians have been rescued from the tunnels under a besieged steel plant in Mariupol, a Ukrainian official said Friday, even as fighters holed up at the sprawling complex made their last stand to prevent Moscow’s complete takeover of the strategic port city, The Associated Press reported. The fight in the last Ukrainian stronghold of a city reduced to ruins by the Russian onslaught appeared increasingly desperate. Some 2,000 Ukrainian fighters, by Russia’s most recent estimate, are holed up in a vast maze of tunnels and bunkers beneath Azovstal steelworks – and they have repeatedly refused to surrender.

7:10 a.m.: Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said on Friday that there was hostile rhetoric coming out of Poland, and that Warsaw could be "a source of threat," Reuters reported. Poland has led calls for the EU to toughen sanctions and for the Western NATO alliance to arm Ukraine as it tries to resist Russian forces that have poured into its east. Polish environment and climate minister Anna Moskwa said on Monday that "Poland is proud to be on Putin's list of unfriendly countries." 7:03 a.m.: Battered war trophies incite raw emotions in Ukraine's capital. 📸 Sergei Supinsky #AFP pic.twitter.com/dqBxMpmtKY 7:00 a.m.: Here are some of the key developments in Russia over the past week and some of the takeaways going forward. Steve Gutterman from Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty recaps the events in this report headlined “The Week In Russia: Carnage and Celebration.”

6:53 a.m.: Information that Russia is stealing grain from Ukraine is likely to be fake, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Friday, after a U.N. food agency official said there were signs that Russia had been trucking grain out of occupied regions of its neighbor. "We have no information, it appears to be fake," Peskov said, according to Reuters.

6:42 a.m.: Nearly 25 million tons of grains are stuck in Ukraine and unable to leave the country due to infrastructure challenges and blocked Black Sea ports including Mariupol, Josef Schmidhuber, FAO Deputy Director, Markets and Trade Division told a Geneva press briefing via Zoom on Friday, Reuters reported. The blockages are seen as a factor behind high food prices. Ukraine had been the world’s fourth largest exporter of corn in the 2020/21 season and the number six wheat exporter, according to International Grains Council data. 6:38 a.m.: Ukraine received $6.5 billion in pledges at an international donors’ conference in Warsaw, Poland, on Thursday. VOA Eastern Europe Bureau Chief Myroslava Gongadze discussed the outcomes from the conference and other issues with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal in the Polish capital. 6:27 a.m.: Hungary's prime minister has reiterated his government's stance that it will not back the European Union's new proposed sanctions package against Russia, which includes an embargo on oil imports. Speaking on state radio on Friday, Viktor Orban said the embargo would be like dropping an “atomic bomb” on the Hungarian economy. But he also said Budapest was open to other proposals if they didn't harm Hungary's interests. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this report.

6:21 a.m.: Ukraine has appealed to Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) to help evacuate fighters holed up in the vast Azovstal steel works in Mariupol that is surrounded by Russian forces, Reuters reported. Ukraine's Ministry for the Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories posted details on its website on Friday of a letter to the medical charity in which Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk expressed concern about "deplorable conditions" at the plant. It quoted Vereshchuk as saying the MSF charter provided assistance to people in need or victims of armed conflict.

6:19 a.m.: #UPDATE Ukraine said on Friday that Russia was pressing on with "assault operations" on the #Azovstal steel plant in #Mariupol, where Kyiv's remaining soldiers defending the battered port city and some civilians are holed up https://t.co/OJK6nFdwcy pic.twitter.com/bBir3N5r4H 6:14 a.m.: Russian forces have resumed their assault on a sprawling steel factory in the devastated Ukrainian port of Mariupol, using aircraft to pound Ukrainian fighters holding out there. As many as 2,000 Ukrainian fighters, plus hundreds of civilians, were believed to remain on the grounds of the Azovstal plant, whose defenses were breached earlier this week by Russian forces. The United Nations said another evacuation effort was under way, and a top Ukrainian official said nearly 500 civilians had been evacuated so far. Ukraine's General Staff said in its daily assessment on Friday that Russians were using aircraft as part of the renewed assault on the plant. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this report.

6:10 a.m.: Germany’s defense minister confirmed Friday that her country will supply Ukraine with seven powerful self-propelled howitzers to help defend itself against Russia, The Associated Press reported. Christine Lambrecht said Ukrainian soldiers will be trained in Germany to use the self-propelled Panzerhaubitze 2000 artillery, which is capable of firing precision ammunition at a distance of up to 25 miles. Germany has stepped up its material support for Ukraine in recent weeks, after the government’s initial reticence to provide heavy weapons drew widespread criticism.

6:07 a.m.: ⚡️ Governor: Russian offensive in Luhansk Oblast expected to intensify. Luhansk Oblast Governor Serhiy Haidai says that in the next 3-4 days, Russian forces will put all efforts to break through either to Sievierodonetsk or Popasna, two cities still under Ukraine's control. 6:03 a.m.: Russia will not use nuclear weapons in Ukraine, foreign ministry spokesman Alexei Zaitsev said on Friday, according to Reuters. Zaitsev told reporters the use of nuclear weapons by Russia - a risk that Western officials have publicly discussed - was not applicable to what Moscow calls its special military operation in Ukraine. CIA director William Burns said on April 14 that given the setbacks Russia had suffered in Ukraine, "none of us can take lightly the threat posed by a potential resort to tactical nuclear weapons or low-yield nuclear weapons."

5:58 a.m.: Ukraine's farmers risk death in bomb-strewn fields. #AFP 📸 @dilkoff pic.twitter.com/jGcqnClA9f 5:52 a.m.: The New York Times reports that almost 500 civilians have been evacuated Mariupol and the Azovstal steel plant. 5:07 a.m.: Germany will supply Ukraine with seven self-propelled armored howitzers 2000, CNN reports. The artillery system resembles a tank and has a firing range of up to 40 kilometers. 4:02 a.m.: An adviser to the mayor of Mariupol, Ukraine, says that Russia's use of "filtration camp" detention centers has turned the city into a "concentration camp," Al Jazeera reports. 3:07 a.m.: The Pentagon says there are no indications Belarus plans to get involved in the conflict in Ukraine, Al Jazeera reports. 2:04 a.m.: CNN reports that the Pentagon denied news reports saying the U.S. provided intelligence that helped Ukraine sink the Russian warship Moskva. "We did not provide Ukraine with specific targeting information for the Moskva," Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said in a statement Thursday. "We were not involved in the Ukrainians' decision to strike the ship or in the operation they carried out. We had no prior knowledge of Ukraine's intent to target the ship." 1:02 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K.'s defense ministry says Russian efforts to complete the capture of Mariupol, including its Azovstal steel plant, are likely linked to Russia's plans to celebrate Victory Day on May 9. Victory Day marks the Soviet Union's 1945 victory over Nazi Germany. Putin, the update says, wants to have a symbolic success in Ukraine. 12:02 a.m.: The Washington Post reports that the western Ukraine city of Ivan-Frankivsk is warning its residents about possible shelling ahead of Russia's May 9 Victory Day celebration. Russia uses Victory Day to celebrate the Soviet Union's victory over Nazi Germany; it's a traditional celebration of national pride. Leaders in Ivano-Frankivsk fear that this year it'll lead to increased Russian attacks. They're telling residents to evacuate or to stay inside, and they've canceled all public events, the Post reports. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.