For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 2:50 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiyy said on Wednesday that he was only willing to talk directly to Russian President Vladimir Putin and not via intermediators, Reuters reported. He added that if the Russian President “understands reality” there was the possibility of finding a diplomatic way out of the conflict. Speaking to an audience at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Zelenskyy said that his country will fight until it recovers all its territory. Questions have swirled about whether a negotiated solution with Putin is possible. VOA’s Dora Mekouar has the story. 2:40 a.m.: Delegations from Sweden and Finland were scheduled on Wednesday to hold talks in Ankara with senior Turkish officials in an effort to overcome Turkey’s objections to their historic bids to join the NATO alliance, The Associated Press reported.  Delegations from Sweden and Finland are in Ankara for talks with senior officials in an effort to overcome Turkey’s objections to the Nordic countries' historic bids to join the NATO alliance. https://t.co/JIx9rXuHzs  1:50 a.m.: Ukrainian negotiator Mykhailo Podolyak called on world leaders to take more action against Russia if peace is to be achieved. “The duration of this war depends on the speed of imposing energy sanctions and weapons supply,” Podolyak said in a Twitter post Wednesday. Today, the future of Europe is not formed in Brussels or #Davos. It is formed in the trenches near Severodonetsk and Bakhmut. The duration of this war depends on the speed of imposing energy sanctions and weapons supply. Want to end the war? The key to peace is in your capitals.  1:15 a.m.: The British defense ministry said Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is significantly impacting the global grain supply due to lack of “merchant shipping activity in or out of Odesa since the start of the war” in its daily intelligence report published Wednesday. “Russia’s subsequent naval blockade of key Black Sea ports has deterred the commercial shipping industry from operating in the area,” the report said, adding “overland export mechanisms are highly unlikely to substitute for the shortfall in shipping capacity caused by the Russian blockade.” The illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is continuing. The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 25 May 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/nYJGqHGoUQ pic.twitter.com/rq82WgaKji  12:15 a.m.: As the war entered its fourth month on Wednesday, Russian forces were relentlessly bombarding the industrial city of Severodonetsk while attempting its encirclement, a key goal of recent fighting in the Donbas region, the Agence France-Presse reported. Russian troops are advancing in eastern Ukraine, pounding key cities and aiming “to destroy everything there,” President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Wednesday, as Moscow signaled it was digging in for a long war against its neighbor, the AFP said. 12:15 a.m.: Reuters reports that Russian-born tennis star Daria Saville, who plays for Australia, says she cannot return to Russia because she spoke publicly against its invasion of Ukraine. In a social media post, Saville urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to end the conflict and encouraged Russian soldiers to leave Ukraine. Even though her parents still live in Ukraine, "I can't really go back," she said. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.