For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 12:02 p.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden said in a statement Wednesday, “I warmly welcome and strongly support the historic applications from Finland and Sweden for membership in NATO and look forward to working with the U.S. Congress and our NATO Allies to quickly bring Finland and Sweden into the strongest defensive alliance in history.” Biden is scheduled to meet with President of Finland Sauli Niinistö and Prime Minister of Sweden Magdalena Andersson in Washington Thursday, to discuss NATO and European security. 11:53 a.m.: The European Union’s Commissioner for Environment, Oceans and Fisheries, Virginijus Sinkevičius, said on Twitter Wednesday that the reconstruction of Ukraine after the war will be the largest European project of the 21st century so far. 11:45 a.m.: A pro-government Turkish newspaper says Turkey has drawn up a list of 10 demands it will reportedly ask Sweden and Finland to meet before it can approve their NATO membership, The Associated Press reported. The list published by Sabah newspaper on Wednesday calls on the two countries to stop any financial support to groups linked to the Kurdistan Workers’ Party as well as to Syrian Kurdish fighters whom Ankara views as extensions of the banned group. There are also demands that these countries halt contacts with members of the Syrian Kurdish group. Sabah said Turkey furthermore wants the two countries to “expedite” extradition proceedings for suspects wanted by Turkey on terror charges. The list also includes a demand that Sweden clamps down on what Sabah called a “disinformation” campaign against Turkey led by followers of Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, who Ankara claims was behind a coup attempt in 2016. Many followers of the Gulen movement have fled to Sweden. 11:30 a.m.: 11:14 a.m.: India is looking to domestic firms and eastern European nations for military gear and ammunition, Reuters reported. The world’s biggest buyer of Russian arms seeks alternative suppliers at a time when Moscow is fighting a war with Ukraine and facing sanctions. New Delhi has long talked of diversifying the suppliers to its huge armed forces, and even making more equipment at home, objectives that have taken on new urgency since Russia’s invasion, two government officials and a defense source said. 10:47 a.m.: Ukrainian fighters who surrendered at the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol were taken to a hospital at Novoazovsk in the breakaway Donetsk republic, the Russian defence ministry said on a video on Wednesday, according to Reuters. Nearly 1,000 Ukrainian fighters who barricaded themselves into tunnels on the site have so far given themselves up to Russian and pro-Russian forces since Monday. Reuters could not independently verify the contents of the video. Ukrainian officials have halted all public discussion of the fate of fighters who had made their last stand at Azovstal. 10:39 a.m.: 10:34 a.m.: Representatives from five of the United Nations organizations working in Ukraine held a press conference Tuesday, providing updates on the humanitarian situation there. 

"At least 20% of crops may not be harvested or grown in Ukraine, which will further reduce supplies and have serious consequences for Europe, Central Asia and other countries that depend on Ukrainian food supplies," said Viktoriia Mykhalchuk, a communications specialist with the Food and Agriculture Organization. 

According to the World Health Organization’s public health specialist, Dr Margaret Harris, the war in Ukraine raised the risk of infectious diseases. “In Mariupol, where extensive damage to the water systems has mixed water with sewage, we are very concerned about the risk of cholera,” she said. 

And the U.N. refugee agency UNHCR communications officer, Victoria Andrievska, said that “one-third of Ukrainians have been forced from their homes. This is the largest displacement crisis in the world today.” 

The full briefing was posted to YouTube. 10:31 a.m.: Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty correspondent Amos Chapple reviews a selection of the domestically-produced weapons and vehicles that would bolster NATO's arsenal if Finland and Sweden are successful in their bids to join the military alliance.

10:23 a.m.: 10:11 a.m.: Poland is launching a new form of military service this month amid security concerns because of the war in neighboring Ukraine, The Associated Press reported. The Polish military said Wednesday that volunteers will be able to provide a year’s paid service that can be turned into long-term or professional service. Those who enter the program will go through 28-day training with a military unit, and then 11 months of service. They will be accommodated with their unit or outside, and will receive a pre-tax monthly pay of some $1,000. It was not immediately clear how much interest the offer could draw. The first volunteers will be able to enlist from May 21. A NATO member since 1999, Poland has some 111,500 professional soldiers and 32,000 volunteer territorial troops. 10:02 a.m.: Germany has registered a slight increase in the number of Russian nationals applying for asylum since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, an Interior Ministry spokesperson said on Wednesday. In April, the second full month of the war, 222 people from Russia applied for asylum in Germany, the spokesperson said at a regular government news conference in Berlin, according to Reuters. 9:51 a.m.: 9:48 a.m.: The Czech Republic’s government has unanimously approved NATO membership for Finland and Sweden — just hours after the two countries submitted their requests, The Associated Press reported. Prime Minister Petr Fiala said Wednesday he welcomes the Scandinavian nations’ decisions to join the alliance. He added that their militaries fully meet all necessary accession criteria. The accession protocol still needs to be ratified by both chambers of Czech Parliament, which is expected to happen soon. Fiala said he doesn’t anticipate any obstacles, as governing parties hold the majority in both chambers of parliament. 9:33 a.m.: Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February, millions of people have left their hometowns to move to safety — either to western Ukraine or to neighboring countries like Poland. Many took just a few belongings, but some others brought their businesses and are putting their know-how and connections to use to help those displaced by the war. VOA’s Anna Kosstutschenko has the story. No media source currently available 9:15 a.m.: Russia’s capture of a massive steel plant in the port city of Mariupol where hundreds of soldiers ended their fight after a grueling siege will represent a symbolic victory for the Kremlin at this stage of its invasion of Ukraine rather than a significant military breakthrough, analysts said. Senior Correspondent Todd Prince has this overview for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. 9:00 a.m.: 8:59 a.m.: The United States has mobilized about three times as much support for Ukraine as the European Union, according to figures compiled by a German think tank, The Associated Press reported. The Kiel Institute for the World Economy said Wednesday that a new aid package passed by the U.S. House of Representatives takes American military, financial and humanitarian support for Ukraine to over $45 billion between January 24 and May 10. The institute found that aid from the EU amounted to $16.8 billion during the same period. However, some countries in the 27-nation bloc have shied away from giving the value of their Ukraine aid, particularly for arms supplies. Compared to their gross domestic products, Estonia, Latvia and Poland provided the most support, ahead of the United States, according to the think tank’s calculations. 8:53 a.m.: The European Union intends to mobilise up to 300 billion euros of investments by 2030 to end its reliance on Russian oil and gas, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday, according to Reuters. 8:49 a.m.: A Kyiv district court met on Wednesday to begin hearing its first war crimes trial against a Russian soldier who took part in Moscow’s February 24 invasion, a case of huge symbolic value for Ukraine. Vadim Shishimarin, a 21-year-old Russian tank commander held in Ukraine, is charged with murdering a 62-year-old civilian in the northeast Ukrainian village of Chupakhivka on February 28. He told the court that he pleaded guilty. If convicted Shishimarin faces up to life imprisonment. 8:43 a.m.: 8:40 a.m.: Top-ranking Ukrainian commanders have not yet surrendered from the labyrinth of bunkers and tunnels below the Azovstal steel works in Mariupol, the leader of the Russian-backed separatist region of Donetsk said on Wednesday. Russia's defence ministry said that in the past day 694 Ukrainian fighters - including members of the Azov regiment - had surrendered, including 29 wounded. It was unclear if the top commanders would leave the plant, or possibly even fight a last mortal battle with the Russian forces they regard as occupiers of their motherland, Reuters reported. 8:24 a.m.: Russia has announced the expulsion of dozens of French and Italian diplomats in a "retaliatory" move for their similar actions as part of a coordinated European action over Russia's campaign in Ukraine. The Foreign Ministry in Moscow said on Wednesday that it had informed the French ambassador that 34 employees of French "diplomatic institutions in Russia" had been declared personae non grata and must leave the country within two weeks. The same day, the ministry said 24 Italian diplomats were also being expelled for similar reasons. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has the story. 8:20 a.m.: 7:46 a.m.: Vandals have daubed blue and yellow paint - Ukraine’s national colours - on a Russian monument to soldiers who perished fighting Napoleon’s forces in Switzerland in the 18th century, drawing a complaint from Moscow’s diplomatic mission, Reuters reported. “Hundreds of Russian men died fighting the French in the Swiss Alps. They have nothing to do with 21 century events, and their memory must not be desecrated,” the Russian mission in Geneva tweeted. It posted a video of past ceremonies at the stone-carved monument near the Devil’s Bridge in the central canton of Uri. 7:23 a.m.: 7:12 a.m.: Russia on Wednesday touted its new generation of laser weapons including a mobile laser system first announced by President Vladimir Putin in 2018 which Moscow said had advanced so far it could blind orbiting satellites and destroy drones, Reuters reported. Little is known about what exactly the laser weapon, named Peresvet does. Putin gave few specifics in 2018 and the laser’s details are secret. Yury Borisov, the deputy prime minister in charge of military development, told a conference in Moscow that Peresvet was already being widely deployed and it could blind satellites up to 1,500 km above Earth. He cited a test on Tuesday which he said had burned up a drone 5 km away within five seconds. Reuters was unable to independently confirm the test. 7:06 a.m.: 7:00 a.m.: The Danish Defense Intelligence Service on Wednesday heightened the threat level for cyber activism against Denmark because of the recent pro-Russian cyber activist attacks on Western European NATO countries, The Associated Press reported. Denmark’s Center for Cyber Security which is under the Scandinavian country’s foreign intelligence service, raised the threat level from low to medium - the third level on a five-step scale. The national IT security authority said that in the initial phase after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, cyber-activist attacks mainly targeted Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. However, “in recent weeks, cyber activists have also hit targets in Western European NATO countries.”

6:56 a.m.: Ukraine’s Ministry of Defense praised Finland and Sweden for formally applying to join NATO in a message send Wednesday on Twitter. 6:44 a.m.: Britain’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday tweeted a message welcoming Finland and Sweden’s application for NATO membership. 6:39 a.m.: The foreign minister of Austria said his country would retain its neutral status even as EU allies Sweden and Finland overhauled decades-long foreign policy stances to apply for NATO membership in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Reuters reported. "The situation for us looks a little different," Austrian Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg told German radio broadcaster Deutschlandfunk on Wednesday, pointing to "overwhelming" public support for neutrality in Austria. Schallenberg said that the country, which obtains 80% of its natural gas from Russia, would continue to provide humanitarian support to Ukraine rather than lethal weapons. 6:35 a.m.: 6:24 a.m.: Russian forces continue to launch missile strikes and bombard military targets and civilians across Ukraine as talks are under way to release the fighters who have been transferred out of the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol. Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar said negotiations for the fighters' release were ongoing, as were plans to extract those who are still inside the sprawling steel plant. Ukraine's armed forces' General Staff said in an update on Wednesday that in Mariupol, Russian solders are continuing to block units in the Azovstal steel mill. The Ukrainian military said that Russian forces are also attacking in Donetsk in the east, and continue to shell border areas of Chernihiv and Sumy. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this story. 6:21 a.m.: 6:20 a.m.: Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Wednesday that there was no movement in peace talks with Ukraine, and that Kyiv was showing a total unwillingness to continue them. “Negotiations are not progressing and we note the complete unwillingness of Ukrainian negotiators to continue this process,” Peskov said. Peskov’s comments echo that made earlier this week by Deputy Foreign Minister Andrey Rudenko, who said the two sides are not holding talks “in any form,” according to Interfax news agency. Rudenko was also quoted as saying that Ukraine “has practically withdrawn” from the negotiations. 6:10 a.m.: Russian gymnast Ivan Kuliak, who received criticism outside of Russia for wearing a pro-war symbol on a podium next to a Ukrainian athlete, has received a one-year ban for his actions, according to CNN. The 20-year-old wore a ‘Z’ symbol taped to his leotard while standing next to Ukrainian gymnast Illia Kovtun on a podium in March — Kovtun won gold and Kuliak picked up bronze in the parallel bars at the gymnastics World Cup event in Doha, Qatar. The ‘Z’ insignia has been displayed on tanks and vehicles used by the Russian military and has become a symbol of support for the invasion of Ukraine. The International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) criticized Kuliak for his "shocking behavior" and the athlete has now been sanctioned by the Disciplinary Commission of the Gymnastics Ethics Foundation for violating FIG rules. 6:00 a.m.: Finland and Sweden have officially applied for membership in the NATO military alliance, spurred by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. VOA has the story. 5:30 a.m.: The explosion that took Olena Viter’s left leg also took her son, 14-year-old Ivan, a budding musician. Her husband Volodymyr buried him, along with another boy killed in the same blast, under a guelder rose bush in their garden. Amid the fighting, they couldn’t get to the cemetery. The Associated Press has the story. 5:20 a.m.: Donetsk separatist leader Denis Pushilin said that a court would decide the fate of the Ukrainian fighters who had surrendered at the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Reuters reported citing a local media outlet. Russia said earlier on Wednesday that a total of 959 Ukrainian fighters, including 80 wounded, had surrendered from the bunkers and tunnels below the Azovstal steelworks since Monday. 5:00 a.m.: British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the country is open to the idea of an international criminal tribunal trying Russian President Vladimir Putin and other Russian leaders over the war in Ukraine, The Guardian newspaper reported. “We are very clear that Putin and all of those who’ve been behind the appalling war crimes that are being committed in Ukraine need to be held to account, and we’re working very closely with the international criminal court” Truss said during an interview on the digital Times Radio outlet. 4:50 a.m.: Russia’s defense ministry said Wednesday 959 Ukrainian troops have surrendered this week at the last stronghold in the besieged port city of Mariupol. A ministry spokesman told reporters that number included 694 who had surrendered during the past 24 hours. Ukrainian officials have not confirmed the figures. Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Anna Malyar said Monday more than 260 fighters had left the ruins of the Azovstal steel plant and turned themselves over to Russian forces, in line with numbers given by Russia. Russia called the operation a mass surrender. The Ukrainians, in contrast, said its garrison had completed its mission. 4:10 a.m.: Reuters reported that Israel has delivered 2,000 helmets and 500 protective vests for emergency and civilian organizations in Ukraine. 3:00 a.m.: Russian gas producer Gazprom GAZP.MM said it continues to supply gas to Europe through Ukraine via the Sudzha entry point, with volumes on Wednesday seen at 51.6 million cubic meters (mcm), up from 49.3 mcm on Tuesday, Reuters reported. Gazprom said an application to supply gas via the main Sokhranovka entry point, the Reuters report added, was rejected by Ukraine. 2:17 a.m.: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the decision of Finland and Sweden to apply for membership in the alliance is "a good day at a critical moment for our security." Speaking alongside the ambassadors of both nations at NATO headquarters in Brussels. the secretary-general said: "You have both made your own choice after thorough democratic processes, and I warmly welcome the requests by Finland and Sweden to join NATO," Stoltenberg said to them. "All allies agree on the importance of NATO enlargement," said Stoltenberg. "We all agree that we must stand together. And we all agree that this is an historic moment which we must seize." 2:00 a.m.: In its latest battleground intelligence report Wednesday, the British defense ministry said “staunch Ukrainian resistance delayed Russia’s ability to gain full control over” Mariupol despite encircling the city for over ten weeks. "This frustrated its [Russia’s] early attempts to capture a key city and inflicted costly personnel losses amongst Russian forces," the ministry said.  1:20 a.m.: A Ukrainian court will reconvene Wednesday, according to a judge, after holding a preliminary hearing May 13 in the first war crimes trial arising from Russia’s February 24 invasion. A captured Russian soldier has been charged with the murder of a 62-year-old civilian. The Ukrainian prosecutor general’s office said the defendant was a 21-year-old tank commander in the Kantemirovskaya tank division from the Moscow region. The prosecutor general had published a photograph of him ahead of the hearing. The defendant identified himself as Vadim Shishimarin, and confirmed that he was a Russian serviceman. Prosecutors said Shishimarin and four other soldiers stole a car after their convoy came under attack. As they were travelling near the village of Shupakhivka in the Sumy region, they encountered the man on a bicycle. “One of the soldiers ordered the accused to kill the civilian so that he would not denounce them,” the prosecutor’s office said. In a video released earlier this month by authorities announcing his arrest, Shishimarin said he had come to fight in Ukraine to “support his mother financially.” 1:15 a.m.: Lawmakers in Finland voted overwhelmingly Tuesday in favor of the country joining NATO by a vote of 188-8, marking a dramatic reversal of Finland’s military non-alignment policy dating back more than 75 years. Agence France-Presse has the video:  12:30 a.m.: The fall of the Ukrainian port of Mariupol to Russia appeared imminent Tuesday as Ukraine moved to abandon the city’s sprawling steel plant, and hundreds of Kyiv fighters who had been holed up there turned themselves over to Russian forces in a deal reached by the warring parties. The capture of Mariupol, a prewar city of 430,000 people along the north coast of the Sea of Azov, would be Moscow’s biggest success in its nearly three-month offensive against Ukraine. But Russia is struggling to capture more territory in eastern Ukraine and has failed to topple the government of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy or take the capital, Kyiv. VOA’s National Security Correspondent Jeff Seldin reports.  Under constant Russian shelling, which Ukraine estimates has killed 20,000 civilians in Mariupol, much of the city has been reduced to rubble. What’s left of it is situated between the Russian mainland and the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia seized from Ukraine in 2014. More than 260 Ukrainian fighters — some of them seriously wounded and lying on stretchers — left the ruins of the Azovstal steel plant on Monday and turned themselves over to Russian forces. Ukrainian authorities said they were working to remove its remaining soldiers from the steel mill, but it was not clear how many remained. Russia called the operation a mass surrender. The Ukrainians, in contrast, said its garrison had completed its mission. 12:01 a.m.: In an interview with VOA’s Ukranian Service Tuesday, Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko spoke of the courage of Ukrainian forces who defended the once-thriving Southeastern seaport besieged by Russian artillery for 82 days. "There is still a Ukrainian flag over Mariupol. And they were doing it against the powers that were [a] dozen times stronger. They were working professionally, almost without food or water. Without [much] weapons," Boychenko said. He praised Denys Prokopenko, commander of Azov special regiment, who was in charge of the defense and others who supported Ukraine’s fight against Russia’s invasion. "They were not only holding Mariupol, but they’ve held back an immense power of 20-30 professional Russian military, said Boychenko. "It has allowed the other [Ukrainian] military groups, other cities to better prepare for this war." Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.