For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 4:55 a.m.: The head of Ukraine’s state gas company said on Wednesday he could not confirm an assertion by Russia’s Gazprom that it is not technically possible to switch gas transfers to Ukraine to a new entry point, Reuters reported. “We cannot confirm Gazprom’s claims that it is technically impossible to transfer transit from Sokhranivka to Sudzha IP,” Naftogaz head Yuri Vitrenko wrote on Twitter.  4:10 a.m.: Reuters reported that the European Union’s proposal on oil sanctions against Russia would destroy the Hungarian economy and does not offer a solution to the huge problems it would create for Hungary, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Wednesday. Szijjarto said in a video on his Facebook page that after talks conducted so far, the European Commission does not have a solution, so the only way to an agreement on an oil embargo would be if it applied to maritime oil shipments, and all shipments of Russian oil via pipelines would be fully exempted, Reuters added. 3:30 a.m.: Since Russia invaded Ukraine, more than 100 women have given birth in the basement delivery room of a maternity hospital in Lviv, Ukraine, The Associated Press reports. About 200 pregnant women displaced by Russia's invasion have come to the hospital since the war began. They come from some of the communities the world now knows by name: Mariupol, Kharkiv, Donetsk, Kyiv. The AP has the story.  2:30 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked the U.S. House of Representatives for approving more than $40 billion in military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine.  1:30 a.m.: Reuters reported that nominations for Russian gas transit via Ukraine at the Sokhranovka entry point for May 11 declined to zero, data from Ukraine's gas pipeline operator showed on Wednesday, following Kyiv's warning of shutting down supplies through the route. Ukraine said on Tuesday it would suspend the flow of gas through the transit point that it said delivers almost a third of the fuel piped from Russia to Europe through Ukraine, blaming Moscow for the move and saying it would move the flows elsewhere. The data also showed that requests for Russian gas transit to Europe via Ukraine at the Sudzha entry point stood at almost 72 million cubic meters for Wednesday. 1:00 a.m.: An overnight strike destroyed a large shopping mall in the strategic port city of Odesa, Ukraine. For VOA, Yan Boechat visited the site of a Russian missile attack in Odesa.  12:40 a.m.: In its daily battleground intelligence report, the U.K. defense mnistry said Wednesday that Ukraine has successfully struck Russian air defenses and resupply vessels with Bayraktar drones.  12:10 a.m.: The war in Ukraine has taken a toll on civilians as families are separated. In this video released on Facebook, a Ukrainian mother was reunited with her police officer son after 74 days apart. The video was posted by police in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on May 9, 2022, Reuters reported.   12:01 a.m.: The U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday approved a bill authorizing nearly $40 billion in new military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine, $7 billion more than President Joe Biden asked for last week. The measure must still be approved by the Senate. Biden has said his administration has “nearly exhausted” his existing authority to send weapons and other military equipment from Pentagon stockpiles. VOA’s White House Bureau Chief Patsy Widakuswara filed this report.  Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.