For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 1:10 p.m.: CIA Director William Burns said on Saturday that Russian President Vladimir Putin believes doubling down on the military conflict in Ukraine will improve his outcome in the war. Reuters reports on an interview Burns gave at a Financial Times event in Washington during which Burns said this about Putin. "He's in a frame of mind in which he doesn't believe he can afford to lose…. I think he's convinced right now that doubling down still will enable him to make progress," said Burns. 12:50 p.m.: All women, children and elderly have been evacuated from the Mariupol steel plant, besieged by Russian forces, VOA stringer in Ukraine Anna Chernikova reported. 12:45 p.m.: Jeremy Corbyn, the former British opposition leader, says the U.N. and the West should have been tougher on Russian President Vladimir Putin early on. According to RFE/RL, Corbyn called the Ukraine war “disgraceful” and said that Russia is “wrong at every level.” He also said that there should have been a much earlier intervention in Ukraine to try to prevent the war ever happening in the first place. 12:50 p.m.: U.S. first lady Jill Biden has arrived in Slovakia, her second stop after Romania during her four-day visit to Eastern Europe to show support for Ukraine and U.S. troops stationed in NATO countries. 10:40 a.m.: During a visit to Romania, U.S. first lady Jill Biden heard heartbreaking stories from Ukrainian women and children who fled Russia’s war and found safe haven across the border, The Associated Press reports. The U.S. first lady praised the Romanian government and relief organizations for the range of humanitarian aid they are providing to refugees. At a Romanian public school hosting refugee students, Biden saw firsthand the relief efforts to assist some of the 900,000 Ukrainians who have fled to Romania since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. Most of those Ukrainians have moved on to other countries. But many — mainly women and children — have remained as the fighting back home rages. "We stand with you," Biden told mothers of some of the students after visiting classrooms. 10:35 a.m.: Millions of Russians turn to virtual private networks, an encrypted digital tunnel commonly known as VPN, to access news and information from internet sites blocked by the Russian government. According to The Washington Post, Russians are tearing a hole in the Digital Iron Curtain which has been erected by Moscow to control the narrative of the war in Ukraine. 10:30 a.m.: Defence of Ukraine, the official Twitter feed of Ukraine's defense ministry, says a Ukrainian Bayraktar TB2 drone destroyed another Russian ship, the landing craft of the "Serna" project. “The traditional parade of the Russian Black Sea fleet on May 9 this year will be held near Snake Island - at the bottom of the sea.” the defense ministry said in its tweet, adding what purports to be video of the ships take-down. 10:05 a.m.: Russia's most senior lawmaker on Saturday accused Washington of coordinating military operations in Ukraine which he said amounted to direct U.S. involvement in military actions against Russia, Reuters reported. "Washington is essentially coordinating and developing military operations, thereby directly participating in military actions against our country," Vyacheslav Volodin wrote on his Telegram channel. Washington and European members of the transatlantic NATO alliance have supplied Kyiv with heavy weapons to help it resist a Russian offensive that has resulted in the occupation of parts of eastern and southern Ukraine but failed to take Kyiv. However, the U.S. and its NATO allies have repeatedly said they will not take part in the fighting themselves, in order to avoid becoming parties to the conflict. U.S. officials have said the U.S. has provided intelligence to Ukraine to help counter the Russian assault, but have denied that this intelligence included precise targeting data. 9:50 a.m.: According to the New York Times, Ukrainian officials accused Russia of violating a cease-fire Friday that sought to create conditions for the evacuation of civilians trapped underneath the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol. According to The Associated Press, speculation is growing that Russian President Vladimir Putin aims to finish the battle for Mariupol in time for Monday’s Victory Day, the biggest patriotic holiday on the Russian calendar. 9:45 a.m.: Pro-Russian forces said 50 more people were evacuated on Saturday from the besieged Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol, where scores of civilians have been trapped for weeks alongside Ukrainian fighters holed up in the Soviet-era plant. The territorial defense headquarters of the Russia-backed self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic (DPR) said on Telegram that a total of 176 civilians had now been evacuated from the steelworks. The claim would not be independently verified. About 50 civilians had been moved on Friday from the sprawling, bombed-out plant to a reception center in nearby Bezimenne, in the separatist DPR, whose forces are fighting alongside Russian troops to expand their control of large parts of eastern Ukraine. Dozens of civilians were also evacuated last weekend. "Today, May 7, fifty people were evacuated from the territory of the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol," the DPR said. Mariupol has endured the most destructive bombardment of the 10-week-old war. The plant is the last part of the city - a strategic southern port on the Azov Sea - still in the hands of Ukrainian fighters. Scores of civilians have been trapped for weeks alongside them in the plant with little food, water or medicine. 8:50 a.m.: U.S. first lady Jill Biden praised the Romanian government and relief organizations for their work in helping refugees fleeing the Russian invasion in neighboring Ukraine, calling the efforts "amazing." According to RFE/RL, Biden spoke at the U.S. Embassy in Bucharest on May 7, one day after arriving in the country on an official visit to meet with U.S. troops and Romanian leaders. Nearly 860,000 Ukrainians have fled to, or passed through, Romania, escaping the war in their home country, according to the United Nations refugee agency. Around 7,000 Ukrainians cross the border and arrive in Romania daily, said Pablo Zapata, the Romanian representative for the U.N. agency. 8:40 a.m.: China's Deputy Foreign Minister Le Yucheng said on Saturday that the accusations against China's stance on the war in Ukraine are "absurd" and implied that the U.S. was using the conflict to achieve its geostrategic goals. According to the Associated Press, Le made the remarks as he was delivering a speech via videolink at a think tank forum sponsored by the China Public Diplomacy Association and Renmin University of China. "China is not involved in the conflict, even less the one who created it. So how could China be responsible?" he said. In response to the accusation that China stood on the wrong side of history for not joining the United States and other Western countries in condemning and sanctioning Russia, Le said China pursues independent foreign policy and stands for fairness and justice. 8:30 a.m.: A full dress rehearsal of the Victory Day parade took place in Moscow's Red Square Saturday ahead of the upcoming May 9 celebrations in the Russian capital, the Associate Press reports. According to Russian media, more than 11,000 troops will take part in events for Victory Day, the biggest patriotic holiday on the Russian calendar, marking the Soviet Union's triumph over Nazi Germany. The preparations for May 9 events take place amid continuing military action in Ukraine. Signs of support for the military have grown across the country since February 24, the stat of the invasion, with the letter “Z” appearing on billboards and signs in the streets and subways and on television and social media. 6:06 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that Russia says it has destroyed a large stockpile of military equipment from the U.S. and European countries in Ukraine's Kharkiv region. 5:13 a.m.: Ukraine says Russian forces are blowing up bridges to prevent counter-attacks in the northeast, CNN reports. 4:05 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K.'s defense ministry says at least one of Russia's most advanced tanks, the T-90M, has been destroyed. It includes improved armor, an upgraded gun and enhanced satellite navigation systems. "The conflict in Ukraine is taking a heavy toll on some of Russia’s most capable units and most advanced capabilities," the update says. "It will take considerable time and expense for Russia to reconstitute its armed forces following this conflict. It will be particularly challenging to replace modernised and advanced equipment due to sanctions restricting Russia’s access to critical microelectronic components." 3:04 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned his people to pay attention to air raid sirens and local curfews ahead of the Russian holiday of Victory Day, The Washington Post reported. The May 9 holiday marks the Soviet Union's 1945 defeat of Nazi Germany, and Ukraine fears it'll face more and stronger attacks as the holiday draws nearer. 2:09 a.m.: In his nightly video address, Ukraine's president said diplomatic efforts were under way to save the Ukrainian soldiers defending the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, Al Jazeera reports. 12:02 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, says that "likely widespread civilian resistance" may disrupt Russian plans for a Victory Day event in Mariupol. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.