Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk met with Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro on Friday to discuss connectivity and other projects in the Amazon rainforest. The meeting, held in a luxurious resort in Sao Paulo state, was organized by Communications Minister Fabio Faria, who has said he is seeking partnerships with the world's richest man to bring or improve internet in schools and health facilities in rural areas using technology developed by SpaceX and Starlink, and also to preserve the rainforest. "Super excited to be in Brazil for launch of Starlink for 19,000 unconnected schools in rural areas & environmental monitoring of Amazon," Musk tweeted Friday morning. Illegal activities in the vast Amazon rainforest are monitored by several institutions, such as the national space agency, federal police and environmental regulator Ibama. But deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon has surged under Bolsonaro, reaching its highest annual rate in more than a decade, according to official data from the national space agency. Bolsonaro's critics say he is largely to blame, having emboldened loggers and land grabbers with his fervent support for development of the region. During the event, Bolsonaro said the region was "really important" to Brazil. "We count on Elon Musk so that the Amazon is known by everyone in Brazil and in the world, to show the exuberance of this region, how we are preserving it, and how much harm those who spread lies about this region are doing to us," he said. Bolsonaro and Musk appeared in a video transmitted live on the president's Facebook account, standing together on a stage and answering questions from a group of students. "A lot can be done to improve quality of life through technology," Musk told the crowd. Although none of the students asked about Musk's prospective purchase of Twitter, Bolsonaro said that it represented a "breath of hope." "Freedom is the cement for the future," he said, calling the billionaire a "legend of freedom." Musk has offered to buy Twitter for $44 billion, but said this week the deal can't go forward until the company provides information about how many accounts on the platform are spam or bots. Like Musk, Bolsonaro has sought to position himself as a champion of free speech and has opposed the deplatforming of individuals including his ally, former U.S. President Donald Trump. The meeting with Bolsonaro occurs just five months before the far-right leader will seek a second term in a hotly anticipated election.