For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 11:08 a.m.: Russian forces have advanced deeper into Ukraine's eastern Donbas region amid heavy fighting as they attempt to capture the twin cities of Syevyerodonetsk and Lysychansk. The battle has "reached maximum intensity," according to Ukrainian Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has published this photo essay.

10:52 a.m.: Russian forces in eastern Ukraine captured the centre of the railway hub town of Lyman and encircled most of Sievierodonetsk, Ukrainian officials acknowledged on Friday, as Kyiv's forces fell back in the face of Moscow's biggest advance for weeks, though Ukraine insisted its forces were still holding firm at new defensive lines in the eastern Donbas region, Reuters reported. 
Ukrainian officials acknowledged that Russia had captured most of Lyman. But the defense ministry said forces were still holding out in northeastern and southwestern districts, blocking the Russians from launching an advance towards Sloviansk, a major city a half-hour drive further southwest.

Further east, Russian forces had encircled two-thirds of the city of Sievierodonetsk, Luhansk regional governor Serhiy Gaidai said. The city is the easternmost major population centre still held by Ukraine in the Donbas, and Russia has been trying to trap Ukraine's main fighting force inside it and its twin city Lysychansk across the Siverskiy Donets river. The advance has gained ground since Russian forces broke through Ukrainian lines south of Sievierodonetsk in the city of Popasna last week. 10:29 a.m.: When Alina Shabanova fled her home she was not only concerned about escaping bombs and bullets - her life depended on securing life-saving antiretroviral drugs. The war has disrupted supplies of the medication, vital for the 250,000 Ukrainians who have HIV. Correspondent Yuliia Zhukova with Current Time, a co-production of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and VOA, has this report. 10:16 a.m.: European Union countries are negotiating a deal on Russian oil sanctions that would embargo shipment deliveries but exempt oil delivered by pipeline to win over Hungary and unblock a sixth package of measures against Moscow, officials said on Friday. An agreement could be reached by ambassadors of EU member states in Brussels on Sunday, on time for their leaders to agree at a May 30-31 summit, one of the officials said. 9:51 a.m.: More than 4,000 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since Russia's invasion began on February 24, although the true number is likely much higher, the U.N. rights office (OHCHR) said in a statement on Friday. In total, 4,031 people have been killed, including nearly 200 children, according to OHCHR, which has dozens of monitors in the country. Most were killed by explosive weapons with a wide impact such as shelling from heavy artillery or airstrikes. It did not attribute blame for the deaths. Russia has denied targeting civilians in the conflict. 9:32 a.m.: British Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Friday it was legitimate for allies to send tanks and planes to Ukraine. "We are very clear it is completely legitimate to be supporting Ukraine with tanks, with planes and we're very supportive of the work that the Czech Republic has done sending tanks to Ukraine," she told a news conference, Reuters reported.

9:14 a.m.: In a rare display of political protest in Russia, a group of lawmakers representing the Communist Party in the Far Eastern region of Primorye have called on President Vladimir Putin to stop military operations in Ukraine and withdraw all troops from the country, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported. Leonid Vasyukevich, a member of the regional Legislative Assembly, read out the statement at a session held by lawmakers on Friday. The statement said that as Russian troops are suffering significant losses in Ukraine, there is no way to get any success by military means.

9:01 a.m.: At least 10 people were killed and 35 injured in a Russian missile attack in Dnipropetrovsk region, the Kyiv Independent reported Friday. “Hennadiy Korban, head of the Territorial Defense Force center in Dnipro, said on May 27 that Russia fired three missiles at Dnipropetrovsk Oblast,” the news organization said.

8:57 a.m.: Ukrainian forces are engaged in a "fierce defence" of the eastern city of Sievierodonetsk, which is two-thirds surrounded by Russian forces, the Luhansk region's governor Serhiy Gaidai said on Friday, citing the head of the city's administration, Oleksandr Stryuk. Shelling, which is "very strong," has damaged 90% of the housing in the city, Gaidai added, according to Reuters. 8:49 a.m.: Ukrainian troops are fighting to keep control of the northwestern and southeastern parts of the town of Lyman, the country's defense ministry said on Friday, as Russia's offensive in east Ukraine gathers pace. Ukrainian troops were "counteracting attempts" by Russia to push its offensive towards the key Ukrainian town of Sloviansk, defense ministry spokesman Oleksandr Motuzyanyk said at a briefing, according to Reuters. 8:12 a.m.: Germany’s development minister has traveled to Ukraine to pledge further civilian support and discuss the country’s rebuilding, The Associated Press reported. Svenja Schulze is the second German minister to visit Ukraine since the Russian invasion started. Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock visited on May 10 and reopened the country’s embassy in Kyiv.

Schulze’s ministry said she planned to meet Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and other senior officials in Kyiv on Friday. It said the talks will address immediate aid to address the problems Ukraine faces now and “strategic questions” related to rebuilding the country.

8:04 a.m.: Russian forces are fortifying their defensive positions in Ukraine’s Kherson region, which lies just north of Crimea, while shelling Ukraine-controlled areas on a daily basis, the region’s Ukrainian governor Hennadiy Laguta told a media briefing on Friday.

He said that the humanitarian situation was critical in some parts of the region and that people are finding it almost impossible to leave occupied territory, with the exception of a 200-car convoy that left on Wednesday, Reuters reported.

7:46 a.m.: The Ukrainian city of Kharkiv was hit by renewed shelling as Russian forces press ahead with their offensive in the Donbas region. Emergency crews raced to help victims on May 26 following the indiscriminate bombardment of the northeastern city. Ukrainian military officials said nine people were killed, including a 9-year-old child, and 19 were wounded. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this report. (WARNING: some viewers may find content of this video disturbing). 7:31 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin is making slow but palpable progress in the Donbas in east Ukraine, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday. "I'm afraid that Putin, at great cost to himself and to the Russian military, is continuing to chew through ground in Donbas," he told Bloomberg UK. "He's continuing to make gradual, slow, but I'm afraid palpable, progress and therefore it is absolutely vital that we continue to support the Ukrainians militarily." 7:18 a.m.: Turkey’s foreign minister says Sweden and Finland must now take “concrete steps” to alleviate his country’s security concerns to overcome Ankara’s objections to their NATO membership bid, The Associated Press reported. Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said Friday that delegations from the two Nordic countries have returned home with Turkey’s demands after a visit this week and Ankara is awaiting their answers.

The countries’ membership bids require support from all NATO countries, but Turkey is objecting to them. It has cited alleged support for Kurdish militants that Turkey considers terrorists and restrictions on weapons sales to Turkey.

7:01 a.m.: Russian-occupied parts of Kherson and Zaporizhzhia oblasts will switch to using Russian phone codes, the Kyiv Independent, quoting the Kremlin-controlled news agency RIA Novosti, reported Friday. It reported that a new mobile operator has begun working in the occupied territories.

6:46 a.m.: The Kremlin said on Friday that it blames Ukraine for the fact that peace talks between the two countries are frozen, saying it was unclear what Kyiv wanted, Reuters reported. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said in a call with reporters: "The Ukrainian leadership constantly makes contradictory statements. This does not allow us to fully understand what the Ukrainian side wants."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said earlier that he had tried repeatedly to organize a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin to end the war, but that Russia did not appear to be ready yet for serious peace talks.

6:34 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Friday said Ukraine was not eager to talk to Russia's Vladimir Putin but that it has to face the reality that this will likely be necessary to end the war, Reuters reported.

"There are things to discuss with the Russian leader. I'm not telling you that to me our people are eager to talk to him, but we have to face the realities of what we are living through," Zelenskyy said in an address to an Indonesian think tank.

6:12 a.m.: Russia's separatist proxies in eastern Ukraine claimed full control of the important battlefield town of Lyman on Friday, and Ukraine appeared to concede it, as Moscow presses its biggest advance for weeks, Reuters reported.

Lyman, site of a key railway hub, has been a major front line as Russian forces press down from the north, one of three directions from which they have been attacking Ukraine's industrial Donbas region. The pro-Russian Donetsk People's Republic separatists said they were now in full control of it.

5:53 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War shared its latest assessment and a map of the fighting in Ukraine on Twitter. #Russian forces have made steady, incremental gains in heavy fighting in eastern #Ukraine in the past several days, though Ukrainian defenses remain effective overall. Read the full report: https://t.co/S9Iex3sA8R pic.twitter.com/C2zWTCkKWT 5:02 a.m.: CNN reports that a legal report by more than 30 experts accuses Russia of inciting genocide in Ukraine. As evidence, the report mentions forced deportations and the mass killing of civilians. 4:02 a.m.: The BBC, citing an update from the Ukrainian military, reports that Russia is firing missiles in the Donetsk region. It's also hitting the eastern city of Lyman with artillery. 3:04 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that the Russian-occupied region of Zaporizhzhia has switched from Kyiv time to Moscow time. The move comes from the Russian military administration in the region, and it means an end to daylight saving changes in summer and winter. 2:02 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry says Russia continues to target the cities of Severodonetsk and Lyschansk. Russia has likely pulled T-62 tanks out of storage to use, the update says. The 50-year-old tanks "will almost certainly be particularly vulnerable to anti-tank weapons and their presence on the battlefield highlights Russia's shortage of modern, combat-ready equipment," the update says. 1:04 a.m.: The New York Times reports that Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy used his nightly address to express frustration that the European Union hasn't approved new sanctions against Russia. The sanctions, which would be the sixth such package, would include an oil embargo. 12:02 a.m.: Al Jazeera, citing the mayor of Severodonetsk, reports that at least 1,500 people have been killed in the east Ukrainian city. Mayor Oleksandr Stryuk said only 12 people were evacuated Thursday and some 12,000-13,000 remained. 