For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 10:00 a.m.: The U.S. will not send Ukraine rocket systems that can reach into Russia, President Joe Biden said on Monday. The comments followed reports that the Biden administration was preparing to send advanced long-range rocket systems to Kyiv for its fight against Russia. "We're not going to send to Ukraine rocket systems” that can reach into Russia, Biden told reporters after arriving back at the White House after a weekend in Delaware. Ukrainian officials have sought a longer-range system called the Multiple Launch Rocket System, or MLRS, that can fire a barrage of rockets hundreds of miles away. 9:55 a.m.: An explosion rocked the Russian-occupied city of Melitopol early on Monday, sending plumes of smoke into the sky just outside the office of the pro-Kremlin head of the region, the New York Times reports, citing Ukrainian and Russian officials. It was unclear who was responsible for the blast, which both Ukrainian and Russian officials said appeared to target the proxy leader of the region, Yevgeny Balitsky. If Ukrainian partisans were behind the explosion, it would be one of the most brazen acts of insurgency since Russian forces occupied the southern Ukrainian city in the early days of the war. 9:20 a.m.: The Kyiv Independent quotes Luhansk Oblast governor Serhiy Haidai as saying French journalist Frederic Leclerc Imhoff was killed after Russian forces shelled an armored evacuation vehicle in which he was traveling. The evacuation has been suspended. 9:00 a.m.: EU officials representing 27 member states have settled on a preliminary text for leaders to review, but it remains unclear if Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban would accept the draft, the Wall Street Journal reports. The draft text, potentially for adoption at the summit, says leaders agree to a sixth package of sanctions, covering crude oil and petroleum products from Russia “with a temporary exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline.” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will address leaders by video and is expected to urge both greater support for his country and intensified efforts to punish Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin. 7:45 a.m.: NATO's support for Ukraine is unbreakable and Russian President Vladimir Putin will not achieve his objectives in the country his forces invaded on Feb. 24, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Monday. "Supporting Ukraine with determination is the only way to ensure that the Europe and the world we have built has a certain future," the prime minister told an event marking the 40th anniversary of Spain's NATO membership. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said at the same event that the "cold blast of conflict" would overshadow the historic summit. 7:30 a.m.: Russian forces stormed Sievierodonetsk after trying unsuccessfully to encircle it, and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has described the situation as “indescribably difficult.” Power and communications have been cut and “the city has been completely ruined,” Mayor Oleksandr Striuk told the AP in a phone interview. The mayor has estimated that 1,500 civilians in the city have died since the war began, from Russian attacks as well as from a lack of medicine or treatment. 3:55 a.m.: The latest intelligence report from the United Kingdom's Ministry of Defense says that the lack of "experienced and credible" platoon and company commanders will likely result in continued "poor discipline," and further erosion of moral. Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 30 May 2022 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/ZlY83BdoL1🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/A9VVmuIBU4  3:00 a.m.: The New York Times looks at challenges Western leaders have had over the years reaching consensus with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. The West would like to see Finland and Sweden join NATO; this month, Erdogan said "it is not possible for us to be in favor." 1:45 a.m.: The European Council prepares for its May 30-31 meeting in Brussels during which council members will discuss Ukraine, energy food security, and defense. "Ukraine is showing incredible courage and dignity in the face of the Russian aggression and atrocities," said Council President Charles Michel in his invitation to the meeting. "From the very first day, we have been unwavering in our humanitarian, financial, military and political support to the Ukrainian people and their leadership. We will continue putting pressure on Russia. Our unity has always been our strongest asset. It remains our guiding principle." According to the council's website, the members of the European Council are the heads of state or government of the 27 EU member states, the European Council President, and the President of the European Commission. 12:52 a.m.: The wife of a Ukrainian soldier who fought at the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol is concerned about her husband. Since Ukrainian forces lay down their arms as they declared their mission at the plant over, she has not heard what happened to him, CNN reports. Two weeks ago, hundreds of Ukrainian fighters ended their defense of the Azovstal steel plant. Now, some of their loved ones say they still have heard little or no information on their whereabouts. https://t.co/GfLnXjXwxf  12:01 a.m.: In The Guardian, Ukrainian MP Kira Rudik said she is concerned the war in Ukraine will become "the new normal." She warns that, without more help from the west, her country could be defeated. Ukrainian MP urges west to supply long-range rockets or risk Russian victory https://t.co/qxwEvDxXj1  Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters, and Agence France-Presse.