For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 6:00 a.m.: French President Emmanuel Macron’s office said Tuesday that he is planning to speak with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin via the phone at around midday Paris time, Reuters reported. Putin and Macron last spoke on March 29. 5:00 a.m.: Reuters reported that Slovakia will seek an exemption from any embargo of Russian oil agreed by the European Union in its next set of sanctions against Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine, Slovakia’s Economy Ministry said on Tuesday. The European Commission is preparing a sixth package of sanctions against Russia and is expected to finalize work on Tuesday, Reuters added. 4:30 a.m.: Russia’s war in Ukraine opened a battleground for disinformation. But how does propaganda impact media freedom? Reporters Without Borders’ 2022 Press Freedom Index has the answers. Sirwan Kajjo reports for VOA.  No media source currently available 4:15 a.m.: The Russian defense ministry said Tuesday its high-precision missiles have hit a logistics center located at a military airfield near Ukraine’s Odesa which was used to deliver weaponry given to Kiev by the West, Reuters reported. “Hangars containing unmanned Bayraktar TB2 drones, as well as missile weapons and ammunition from the U.S. and European countries, were destroyed,” the Russian ministry’s statement said. 3:35 a.m.: Ukrainian army unit takes a break after two months on frontline in this video report by Agence France-Presse.  3:00 a.m.: The U.K. defense ministry’s daily battleground intelligence report said on Tuesday that due to Russia’s “failures both in strategic planning and operational execution” its “military is now significantly weaker, both materially and conceptually, as a result of its invasion of Ukraine.” The report added that Russia will have difficulty recovering, including because of sanctions, leaving the country with “lasting impact on Russia’s ability to deploy conventional military force.”  2:30 a.m.: Reuters reported that at least three civilians were killed in Russian shelling of the city of Vuhledar in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine on Tuesday, the Ukrainian president’s office said. Some other areas of Donetsk were under constant fire and regional authorities were trying to evacuate civilians from frontline areas, the office added. 2:00 a.m.: Pope Francis said he has requested for a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in order to stop the war in Ukraine but hasn’t heard back, Reuters reported. Speaking to Italy’s Corriere Della Sera newspaper, the pope also said that Patriarch Kirill of the Russian Orthodox Church “cannot become Putin’s altar boy” for supporting Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 1:30 a.m.: Italy said that it plans end its dependence on Russian by the second half of 2024, Reuters reported. In an interview with daily La Repubblica published Tuesday, Italy’s Ecological Transition Minister Roberto Cingolani said, “we should be autonomous by the second half of 2024, we could do without importing Russian gas.” 12:47 a.m.: VOA’s State Department Bureau Chief Nike Ching tweets: U.S. diplomats have been making day trips into #Lviv from #Poland where they are currently based in the past week. It is not every day, but it has been consistent, said State Department spokesperson Ned Price Monday. 12:36 a.m.: Michael Carpenter, U.S. ambassador to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, warned that Russia plans to annex large portions of eastern Ukraine later this month, The Associated Press reported. Carpenter said the U.S. believes the Kremlin also plans to recognize the southern city of Kherson as an independent republic. Neither move would be recognized by the United States or its allies, he said, according to AP. 12:01 a.m.: The Associated Press reports that more than 1 million people, including 200,000 women, have been taken from Ukraine to Russia since the invasion began.