For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 3:40 p.m.: WCK and our 4,600 team members on the ground have now served over 23 million meals and delivered nearly 11 million pounds of food! As we expand into newly liberated villages, we've reached over 230 cities and towns in Ukraine. #ChefsForUkraine pic.twitter.com/ZivbzGVyAi 3:02p.m.: Russia ports have been busy since the Russian troops invaded Ukraine, as companies rush to fulfill orders before the international sanctions put in place to punish Russia go into full effects, according to the New York Times. Many of those sanctions included exceptions for energy products and consumer goods that might otherwise have created more pain for consumers amid global supply chain problems. But while a possible EU ban could further reduce Russian exports, data shows that, so far, commerce with Russia has been reduced but not crippled, the Times said. 1:30 p.m.: Nine-year-old Sofia Hurmaza is in hospital in Lviv, western Ukraine, after sustaining a shrapnel wound to the head that her doctor says would normally leave her in a "vegetative state." But after two days in a coma and a complex operation, her doctor says she's making a "miracle" recovery. 12:43 p.m.: U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke by telephone to his Russian counterpart Sergei Shoigu on Friday, Reuters reported. It was the first time the two defense chiefs have talked since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to the Pentagon. The report said Austin has tried multiple times to try and talk with Shoigu since the invasion started nearly three months ago, but officials said Moscow had appeared uninterested. The Pentagon said Austin called for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine during the call. Russia's TAS news agency reported the call covered "Topical issues of international security were discussed, including the situation in Ukraine," quoting the Russian defense ministry. 11:23 a.m.: A Ukrainian band is the oddsmaker’s favorite to win the Eurovision Song Contest, according to the Associated Press. Kalush Orchestra is one of 25 bands that will compete Saturday final of the annual songwriting contest in Turin, Italy. The band's song, "Stefania," was written as the frontman’s tribute to his mother but has become an anthem to the motherland since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24. The song is a mashup of traditional Ukrainian folk music and contemporary hip hop elements. 10:12 a.m.: Russia has reportedly lost more than 650 tanks and about 3,000 other armored vehicles and heavy equipment so far in its invasion of Ukraine. According to RFE/RL, advanced anti-tank weapons given to Ukraine by Western countries, poor strategy, low morale, and important design flaws in Russian equipment have all contributed to the losses. 10:06 a.m.: Ukraine on Friday accused Russia forcibly deporting more than 210,000 children since its invasion on Feb. 24, Reuters reports. Ukraine's human rights ombudswoman, Lyudmyla Denisova, said the children were among 1.2 million Ukrainians who Kyiv says have been deported against their will. Reuters said it could not independently verify the figure. 9:55 a.m.: Russia suffered heavy losses when Ukrainian forces destroyed the pontoon bridge enemy troops were using to try to cross a river in the east, the Associated Press reports, citing Ukrainian and British officials. Ukraine's military released photos and video of what it said was a damaged Russian pontoon bridge over the Siversky Donets River and several destroyed or damaged Russian military vehicles nearby. 9:11 a.m.: #UPDATE President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday said Turkey did not have a "positive opinion" on Finland and Sweden joining NATO and accused Scandinavian countries of harbouring outlawed Kurdish militants https://t.co/VmwnDzqAge pic.twitter.com/9YHXkbkRaE 9:03 a.m.: Sweden on Friday issued a report criticizing Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "Russia’s actions give rise to a structural, long-term and significant deterioration of the security environment in Europe and globally, and raise questions about how Sweden can best guarantee its national security," the report said. The majority of the report analyzes Sweden's potential answer to those security questions: joining NATO. 8:50 a.m.: Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba on Friday asked the G7 foreign ministers to seize Russian assets and turn them over to Ukraine help cover the costs of repairing the destruction caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Reuters reports. "Russia must pay," Kuleba told reporters on the sidelines of the session. Kuleba also said that there has been an improvement on weapons supplies coming into Ukraine, but more are needed, especially multiple rocket launch systems. 7:40 a.m.: EU foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell said Friday the bloc will provide an additional 500 million euros worth of military aid to Ukraine, RFE/RL reports. Borrell said the military support would be for heavy weapons such as tanks and artillery, and takes EU aid for Ukraine to about 2 billion euros. 7:33 a.m.: The top four clubs in the Russian soccer league say they have filed an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport against being banned from next season’s European competitions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, The Associated Press reported Friday. Zenit St. Petersburg, Dynamo Moscow, FC Sochi and CSKA Moscow would all qualify for men’s European competitions based on their current league positions. They said they have asked for the case to be heard in an expedited procedure. The new case joins legal bids by Russian teams and federations in a multitude of different sports. 5:53 a.m.: Ukraine puts a Russian soldier on trial today for alleged war crimes. Sgt. Vadim Shyshimarin, 21, is the first Russian to be tried for war crimes since Russia invaded Ukraine. Prosecutors say Shyshimarin shot a Ukrainian civilian in the head, killing him. If convicted, he could get life in prison. 5:43 a.m.: Nearly 100 children were killed in Ukraine last month, The Washington Post reports, citing UNICEF. “More children have been injured and faced grave violations of their rights, millions more have been displaced,” said Omar Abdi, UNICEF's deputy director. 5:07 a.m.: TV presenter Timur Miroshnychenko, who hosted the wildly popular Eurovision Song Contest in Ukraine in 2019, will be chiming in on this year's competition -- from a bomb shelter, The Washington Post reports. Eurovision is the world's longest-running televised music contest, the Post says. This year it's being held in Italy, and the grand finale is Saturday. The favorite to win this year is Ukrainian contestant Kalush Orchestra, whose song Stefania has become a tribute to Ukraine. 4:08 a.m.: The BBC reports that European Council President Charles Michel says that global security is "under threat." "Russia, a nuclear armed state... is attacking the sovereign nation of Ukraine, while making shameful and unacceptable references to the use of nuclear weapons," he said. Michel is currently in Japan, visiting Hiroshima, the city that was the target of the first atomic bombing. 3:04 a.m.: Al Jazeera, citing the U.S. think tank the Institute for the Study of War, reports that Russia likely controls the Ukrainian city of Rubizhne and probably the town of Voevodivka as well. 2:04 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry says Russia is attempting a breakthrough toward Sloviansk and Kramatorsk. Its aim is to isolate Ukrainian forces from support or reinforcement. The Ukrainians, for their part, blocked a Russian attempt to cross the Donbas river. "Conducting river crossings in a contested environment is a highly risky manoeuvre and speaks to the pressure the Russian commanders are under to make progress in their operations in eastern Ukraine," the update says. 1 a.m.: The World Bank says that money transfers to Ukraine, the largest recipient in Europe and Central Asia, are expected to rise by more than 20% this year. That's because refugees and others are sending money to people still in the country. 12:02 a.m.: Al Jazeera, citing the U.S. think tank the Institute for the Study of War, reports that Russia likely controls the Ukrainian city of Rubizhne and probably the town of Voevodivka as well. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.