For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. All times EDT: 7:24 a.m.: In a sign of Russia's urgent need to bolster its war effort in Ukraine, parliament said on Friday it would consider a bill to allow Russians over 40 and foreigners over 30 to sign up for the military, Reuters reported. The website of the State Duma, parliament's lower house, said the move would enable the military to utilize the skills of older professionals. "For the use of high-precision weapons, the operation of weapons and military equipment, highly professional specialists are needed. Experience shows that they become such by the age of 40–45," it said. 7:12 a.m.: Vladislav Inozemtsev is a Russian academic and the director of the Moscow-based Center for Research on Post-Industrial Studies. In a wide-ranging interview with Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty’s Georgian Service, the veteran analyst discusses the health of Russian President Vladimir Putin, whether Russians should feel collective guilt, and predicts how the Putin 6:47 a.m.: Map of #Ukraine showing position of military forces as of May 20, 0700 GMT #AFPgraphics @AFP pic.twitter.com/iR61s9iRjv 6:26 a.m.: Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said that almost 2,000 Ukrainian soldiers holed up in Mariupol's Azovstal steelworks have surrendered so far, TASS news agency reported on Friday. Reuters was not able to independently verify the report. Hundreds of Ukrainian fighters have surrendered from the labyrinth of bunkers and tunnels below the plant, though Moscow and Kyiv have given different estimates on numbers. 6:12 a.m.: Ukraine has an in-built weapon against the destruction wrought by conflict. With 55 gigawatts (GW) of installed power capacity, the war-torn nation can produce more electricity than it currently needs. That presents an opportunity for both Kyiv and the energy-starved European Union. From Breakingviews - Ukraine’s spare energy can help itself and Europe https://t.co/SS7e6xyyzM 6:03 a.m.: Breaking its recent silence on prisoners of war, the Red Cross said Thursday it has registered “hundreds” of Ukrainian prisoners of war who left the giant Azovstal steel plant in the southern city of Mariupol after holding out in a weeks-long standoff with besieging Russian forces. The announcement by the International Committee of the Red Cross, which acts as a guardian of the Geneva Conventions that aim to limit “the barbarity of war,” came shortly after Russia’s military said 1,730 Ukrainian troops at the steel mill have surrendered. Attention now is turning to how those prisoners of war might be treated and what rights they have. The Associated Press takes a look at some key questions about POWs in Russia’s nearly three-month-old war on Ukraine. 5:57 a.m.: The Russian ruble rallied to its strongest levels against the euro and dollar since June 2015 and March 2018 respectively on Friday, which analysts attributed to EU countries preparing to pay Russia for gas and to capital controls imposed by Moscow, Reuters reported. Russian rouble rallies to March 2018 level against dollar https://t.co/gqILc79WpX pic.twitter.com/48ggTfogX0 5:54 a.m.: Fishmongers and farmers are forced to charge prices that even they see as astronomical. High fuel prices threaten to paralyze truckloads of goods. Bread prices are soaring. Inflation sped up by Russia's war in Ukraine is squeezing people across Europe. https://t.co/2a4Yy0TTeM 5:51 a.m.: In the latest sign of growing frustration over the poor performance of its forces in Ukraine, the Russian military has fired or replaced several field commanders recently, according to the British Defense Ministry. The British findings suggest growing setbacks and disarray for the Russian military in its nearly three-month war. Despite its litany of problems and shortcomings, Russian forces still maintain an advantage in terms of numbers and firepower and appear to be adapting to Ukrainian tactics by shifting towards smaller-unit attacks, the Pentagon said on May 18. To better understand what’s to come on the battlefield, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty spoke with Liam Collins, a retired U.S. Special Forces colonel and the executive director of the Madison Policy Forum. 5:48 a.m.: VIDEO: Ukraine war casts a chill in Norwegian Arctic town.War may be far away but tensions from the Ukraine conflict are causing an unprecedented chill in remote Barentsburg where Russian and Ukrainian coalminers have worked side by side for decadeshttps://t.co/z7RaiPZusU pic.twitter.com/rKmfmLySBh 5:46 a.m.: U.S. lawmakers of both major political parties are ramping up pressure on the Biden administration to designate Russia a state sponsor of terrorism. A resolution urging the secretary of state to make the designation has been introduced in the House of Representatives at a time when Congress is eager to punish Moscow for its war on Ukraine. VOA’s Tatiana Vorozhko has this story. 5:44 a.m.: Exclusive: China is quietly ramping up purchases of oil from Russia at bargain prices, filling the vacuum left by Western buyers backing away from business with Russia after its invasion of Ukraine in February https://t.co/SZoq3WBp2I pic.twitter.com/8EqpwPi2j5 5:42 a.m.: Russia stepped up its assault on eastern Ukraine on Friday, using artillery, rocket launchers, and aircraft to pound the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, Ukrainian civilian and military officials said, as British intelligence predicted that Moscow's offensive would intensify even further after securing Mariupol. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia has "completely destroyed" Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, accusing Russian forces of attempting to kill as many Ukrainians and do as much damage as possible. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this report. 5:40 a.m.: ⚡️Luhansk Oblast governor: ‘Rubizhne shared the fate of Mariupol.’ Serhiy Haidai published photos of mass destruction in the town of Rubizhne, comparing it to Mariupol. He said that Rubizhne was “completely destroyed,” and that there are cemeteries with civilians in the yards. pic.twitter.com/SF9nJogvnF 5:38 a.m.: CNN reports that Vadim Shishimarin, 21, the Russian soldier charged with war crimes in Ukraine, was in court in Kyiv on Friday. In the third day of hearings, his lawyer argued that Shishimarin "had no direct intent for the murder," of which he's accused, saying that his client "was in a state of stress caused by the combat situation and the pressure from his commander." The trial has adjourned until Monday. 5:16 a.m.: Al Jazeera reports that the Russian-appointed leader of the Kherson region says the region will "soon become part" of the Russian Federation. “We are looking at the Russian Federation as our own country because it is under the control of the [Russian] Armed Forces and later will be transformed into a federal subject,” Volodymyr Saldo, said on Telegram, adding, “We will become the Kherson region of the Russian Federation." 4:09 a.m.: The U.K.'s defense ministry has released its latest intelligence update. It notes that as many as 1,700 Ukrainian troops have likely surrendered from the Mariupol Azovstal steel factory and says that once Mariupol is secured, Russia will likely turn its attention to the Donbas region. Russian forces, however, will need to be re-equipped and refurbished to successfully attack Donbas, the update says. But the pressure on Russian commanders means the troops probably won't get this preparation, "which risks further force attrition." 3:05 a.m.: Ukraine's grain exports are down 64% from last year, Al Jazeera reports. 2:01 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says the Donbas region of his country is "completely destroyed," the BBC reports. In his nightly address from Kyiv, the president described the region as "hell" and said, “This is a deliberate and criminal attempt to kill as many Ukrainians as possible. Destroy as many houses, social facilities and enterprises as possible." 1:04 a.m.: CNN reports that a Russian checkpoint has blocked more than 1,000 cars carrying people trying to flee to Zaporizhzhia, a Ukrainian-controlled area. 12:02 a.m.: U.S. think tank the Institute for the Study of War, says that Russian troops have withdrawn from the Kharkiv region and have been sent to the Donetsk region, The New York Times reports. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.